ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"CCO"	"MS"	"OBI"	"NCIT"	"NCBITAXON"	"CHMO"	"BTO"	"UO"	"EFO"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CCO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCIT"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHMO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/BTO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/UO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	
Term Source Version	"2"	"96"	"22"	"34"	"3"	"18"	"24"	"42"	"113"	
Term Source Description	"Cell Cycle Ontology"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"National Cancer Institute Thesaurus"	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"Chemical Methods Ontology"	"BRENDA Tissue and Enzyme Source Ontology"	"Units of Measurement Ontology"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS152"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	""
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	""
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS152"
Study Title	"OVCAR-3 spheroid-derived cells display distinct metabolic profiles"
Study Description	"Recently, multicellular spheroids were isolated from a well-established epithelial ovarian cancer cell line, OVCAR-3, and were propagated in vitro. These spheroid derived cells displayed numerous hallmarks of cancer stem cells, which are chemo and radioresistant cells thought to be a significant cause of cancer recurrence and resultant mortality. Gene set enrichment analysis of expression data from the OVCAR-3 cells and the spheroid-derived putative cancer stem cells identified several metabolic pathways enriched in differentially expressed genes. Before this, there had been little previous knowledge or investigation of systems-scale metabolic differences between cancer cells and cancer stem cells, and no knowledge of such differences in ovarian cancer stem cells. To determine if there were substantial metabolic changes corresponding with these transcriptional differences, we used two-dimensional gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry to measure the metabolite profiles of the two cell lines. These two cell lines exhibited significant metabolic differences in both intracellular and extracellular metabolite measurements. Principal components analysis, an unsupervised dimensional reduction technique, showed complete separation between the two cell types based on their metabolite profiles. Pathway analysis of intracellular metabolomics data revealed close overlap with metabolic pathways identified from gene expression data, with four out of six pathways found enriched in gene-level analysis also enriched in metabolite-level analysis. Some of those pathways contained multiple metabolites that were individually statistically significantly different between the two cell lines, with one of the most broadly and consistently different pathways, arginine and proline metabolism, suggesting an interesting hypothesis about cancerous and stem-like metabolic phenotypes in this pair of cell lines. Overall, we demonstrate for the first time that metabolism in an ovarian cancer stem cell line is distinct from that of more differentiated isogenic cancer cells, supporting the potential importance of metabolism in the differences between cancer cells and cancer stem cells."
Study Submission Date	"2015-01-08"
Study Public Release Date	"2015-01-08"
Study File Name	"s_baseLineOCC&OCSC.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"untargeted metabolites"	"Ovarian cancer"	"Cancer Stem Cell"	"cancer metabolism"	"gas chromatography-mass spectrometry"	"two-dimensional gas chromatography"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	""	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OMIM_167000"	"http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Thesaurus.owl#C68706"	""	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0000497"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0002886"
Study Design Type Term Source REF	""	"CCO"	"NCIT"	""	"CHMO"	"CHMO"
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	"25688563"
Study Publication DOI	""
Study Publication Author List	"Kathleen A Vermeersch, Lijuan Wang, Roman Mezencev, John F McDonald, Mark P Styczynski"
Study Publication Title	"OVCAR-3 spheroid-derived cells display distinct metabolic profiles"
Study Publication Status	"Published"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"Cell Type"	"Time Point"
Study Factor Type	"cell type"	"timepoint"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000324"	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000724"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"EFO"	"EFO"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_baselineocc&ocsc_metabolite_profiling_mass_spectrometry.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"mass spectrometry"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000470"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"LECO Pegasus 4D"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"Samples were taken at 0 min, 15 min, 30 min, 8 hr, 24 hr, and 48 hr to capture both short- and long-term metabolic profiles. For OCCs, medium was removed and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen for extracellular analysis. Cells were then quickly washed with 1 ml PBS at 37 °C, which was aspirated off, and then 700 µl of 80:20 methanol/water solution at -80 °C was added immediately. The plate was then incubated at -80 °C for 15 min. After incubation, remaining cellular debris were harvested using a cell scraper (BD Falcon, San Jose, CA) for intracellular analysis. For OCSC cells, the media-cell mixture was transferred to a 15 ml centrifuge tube and centrifuged at 1,900 x g for 30 s at room temperature. The supernatant was removed and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen for extracellular analysis. The cell pellet was quickly resuspended in 1 ml PBS at 37 °C and then immediately centrifuged again at 1,900 x g for 30 s at room temperature. The wash solution was discarded and the cell pellet was resuspended in 700 µl of 80:20 methanol/water at -80 °C. The samples were then incubated at -80 °C for 15 minutes.
</p>
For both cell types, the intracellular solution was then transferred to a microcentrifuge tube in a cold ethanol bath and centrifuged at 5,000 x g for 5 min at -4 °C. The supernatant was retained, and the pellet was subsequently re-extracted twice in 100 µl of the cold 80:20 methanol/water solution, with all supernatants being pooled. Intracellular and extracellular samples were stored at -80 °C and -20 °C, respectively, until analysis.
</p>
Immediately before two dimensional gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GCxGC-MS) analysis, an acetonitrile precipitation was performed on the extracellular samples to remove protein. Briefly, the extracellular samples were thawed on ice and 75 µl was removed for GCxGC-MS analysis. 150 µl of ice-cold acetonitrile was added to the sample, and the sample was vortexed for one minute. The sample was then centrifuged at 21,100 x g for 7 min, and the supernatant removed for GCxGC-MS analysis."	"Before derivatization, both intracellular and extracellular samples were dried down in a CentriVap at 40 °C until completely dry. For the intracellular samples, the volume removed was calculated based on a total of 3 x 10^5 cells at the end of derivatization. For the extracellular samples, the entire supernatant from the extracellular extraction was dried down. The samples were derivatized using the following protocol. 10 µl (extracellular) or 2.5 µl (intracellular) of 40 mg/ml O-methylhydroxylamine hydrochloride (MP Biomedicals, LLC, Santa Ana, CA) in pyridine was added to the dried sample and shaken at 1400 rpm for 90 min at 30 °C. 90 µl (extracellular) or 22.5 µl (intracellular) of N-methyl-N-(trimethylsilyl) trifluoroacetamide (MSTFA) + 1% trimethylchlorosilane (TMCS) (Thermo Scientific, Lafayette, CO) was then added to the samples which were then shaken at 1400 rpm for 30 min at 37 °C. Samples were centrifuged at 21,100 x g for 3 min and 50 µl (extracellular) or 15 µl (intracellular) of the supernatant was added to an autosampler vial. Samples were spiked with 0.25 µl (extracellular) or 0.10 µl (intracellular) of a retention time standard solution consisting of fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) and an internal standard of nonadecanoic acid methyl ester dissolved in dimethylformamide."	"A LECO Pegasus 4D instrument with an Aglient 7683B autosampler, Agilent 7890A gas chromatograph and time-of-flight mass spectrometer (TOF-MS) was used to analyze the samples. The instrument was controlled using ChromaTOF. A sample volume of 1 µl was injected into the split/splitless inlet at 250 °C in splitless mode. The first column was an HP-5, 30 m long x 0.320 mm ID x 0.25 µm film thickness (Agilent, Santa Clara, CA), and the second was an Rtx-200, 2 m long x 0.25 mm ID x 0.25 µm film thickness (Restek, Bellefonte, PA) with a constant flow rate of 1.00 ml/min helium. The initial oven temperature was set to 70 °C and was held for one minute after which the temperature was increased at 10 °C/min until reaching 315 °C with a final hold for two minutes."	"A LECO Pegasus IV D time-of-flight mass spectrometer (TOF-MS) was used. The total MS method time was based on the GC method time with an acquisition delay of 240 s. The collection mass range was from 50 to 500 u. The acquisition rate was set to 200 spectra/s. The detector voltage was set to 100 V above the optimized voltage with the electron energy set to -70 V. The mass defect mode was set to manual with the mass defect 0 mu/100 u. The transfer line temperature was set to 320 °C and the ion source temperature was set to 220 °C."	"Sample files were first analyzed in ChromaTOF (LECO, St. Joseph, MI) to determine baseline, peak area, and peak identification. Briefly, settings included a baseline offset of 0.5, automatic smoothing, 1st dimension peak width of 24 s, 2nd dimension peak width of 0.10 s, and a match of 700 required to combine peaks with a minimum signal-to-noise (S/N) of 5 for all subpeaks. Peaks were required to have a S/N of 10 and have a minimum similarity score of 800 before assigning a name. Unique mass was used for area and height calculation. Analytes were then aligned across the sample files using MetPP (http://metaopen.sourceforge.net/metpp.html). After alignment, further processing of the data was done based on the procedure laid out in [1]. Batch effects were removed from the intracellular data set using LOESS. To remove analytes that were not reproducibly detected, analytes for which more than half of the values were missing in the QC samples or for which the QC samples had a coefficient of variance larger than 0.5 were removed from the data set. Then, missing values were manually corrected using small value correction only if all the values were missing in the biological replicate. Analysis of final data set was performed using MetaboAnalyst (http://metaboanalyst.ca/).
</p>
Ref:</br>
[1] Dunn WB, Broadhurst D, Begley P, Zelena E, Francis-McIntyre S, Anderson N, Brown M, Knowles JD, Halsall A, Haselden JN, Nicholls AW, Wilson ID, Kell DB, Goodacre R. Procedures for large-scale metabolic profiling of serum and plasma using gas chromatography and liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. Nat Protoc. 2011;6:1060–1083. doi:10.1038/nprot.2011.335, PMID:21720319</br>."	"GC-MS spectra were compared to several libraries including the Golm Metabolome Library, NIST spectral libraries, and an in house library. Analytes were identified by mass spectra comparison to the libraries with a cut-off of 700/1000. Metabolites were identified from the annotated analytes by comparison to the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) or the Human Metabolome Database (HMDB); if they were listed in KEGG or HMDB they were identified as metabolites."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Post Extraction;Derivatization"	"Chromatography Instrument;Autosampler model;Column type;Column model;Column type 2;Column model 2"	"Scan polarity;Scan m/z range;Instrument;Mass analyzer;Ion source"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	";"	";;;;;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	";"	";;;;;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Vermeersch"	"Styczynski"
Study Person First Name	"Kathleen"	"Mark"
Study Person Mid Initials	"A"	"P"
Study Person Email	"kvermeersch@gatech.edu"	"mark.styczynski@chbe.gatech.edu"
Study Person Phone	""	""
Study Person Fax	""	""
Study Person Address	""	""
Study Person Affiliation	"Georgia Institute of Technology"	"Georgia Institute of Technology"
Study Person Roles	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""	""
