ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"NCBITAXON"	"EFO"	"CHMO"	"EFO"	"OBI"	"MS"	"SNOMEDCT"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHMO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/SNOMEDCT"	
Term Source Version	"2"	"113"	"16"	"132"	"22"	"86"	"9"	
Term Source Description	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	"Chemical Methods Ontology"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	"Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine - Clinical Terms"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS202"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment [Created with configuration]	""
Comment [Last Opened With Configuration]	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	""
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	""
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS202"
Study Title	"Exploring the mode of action of dithranol therapy for psoriasis: a metabolomic analysis using HaCaT cells."
Study Description	"Psoriasis is a common, immune-mediated inflammatory skin disease characterized by red, heavily scaled plaques. The disease affects over one million people in the UK and causes significant physical, psychological and societal impact. There is limited understanding regarding the exact pathogenesis of the disease although it is believed to be a consequence of genetic predisposition and environmental triggers. Treatments vary from topical therapies, such as dithranol, for disease of limited extent (< 5% body surface area) to the new immune-targeted biologic therapies for severe psoriasis. Dithranol (also known as anthralin) is a topical therapy for psoriasis believed to work by inhibiting keratinocyte proliferation. To date there have been no metabolomics-based investigations into psoriasis. The HaCaT cell line is a model system for the epidermal keratinocyte proliferation characteristic of psoriasis and was thus chosen for study. Dithranol was applied at therapeutically relevant doses to HaCaT cells. Following the optimisation of enzyme inactivation and metabolite extraction, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was employed for metabolomics as this addresses central metabolism. Cells were challenged with 0-0.5 μg/mL in 0.1 μg/mL steps and this quantitative perturbation generated data that were highly amenable to correlation analysis. Thus, we used a combination of traditional principal components analysis, hierarchical cluster analysis, along with correlation networks. All methods highlighted distinct metabolite groups, which had different metabolite trajectories with respect to drug concentration and the interpretation of these data established that cellular metabolism had been altered significantly and provided further clarification of the proposed mechanism of action of the drug."
Study Submission Date	"2015-05-22"
Study Public Release Date	"2015-07-08"
Study File Name	"s_live_mtbl3.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"metabolomic profiling"	"psoriasis"	"gas chromatography mass spectrometry"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000752"	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000676"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0200199"
Study Design Type Term Source REF	"EFO"	"EFO"	"OBI"
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	""
Study Publication DOI	"10.1039/C4MB00739E"
Study Publication Author List	"Katherine A. Hollywood, Catherine L. Winder, Warwick B. Dunn, Yun Xu David Broadhurst, Christopher E.M. Griffiths & Royston Goodacre."
Study Publication Title	"Exploring the mode of action of dithranol therapy for
psoriasis: a metabolomic analysis using HaCaT cells"
Study Publication Status	"Published"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"gene knockout"
Study Factor Type	"gene knock out"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000506"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"EFO"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_live_mtbl3_metabolite profiling_mass spectrometry.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"mass spectrometry"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0001478"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"DSQ II Single Quadrupole GC/MS (Thermo Scientific)"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"	"Derivatisation"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"	"Derivatisation"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"All culture work was conducted within a Microflow biological safety cabinet and all work areas thoroughly cleaned with 70% ethanol before use. The cell culture medium utilised in this work was Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) supplemented with 10% Foetal Bovine Serum (FBS) and to avoid any bias in this undefined reagent we used a single batch. All DMEM used in this work also originated from a single batch. 1% Penicillin (5000 units/mL) and Streptomycin (50 mg/mL) were used to inhibit bacterial and fungal growth. To ensure sufficient biomass for GC-MS analysis HaCaT cell growth was conducted in 225 cm2 culture flasks utilising standard cell culture procedures. Dithranol was applied when cells were determined by microscopy to be ~90% confluent and then incubated further for 24 h. Dithranol was dissolved in 100% acetone and applied to the cells to give a final concentration range of 0.1-0.5 μg/mL (0.4-2.2 μM) in 0.1 μg/mL steps. In addition to these 5 concentrations a control was used which  involved the application of acetone only at the relevant volume. All drug solutions were made afresh before application to the cells. As shown in Figure 1 all drug exposures plus control were performed in triplicate.  Microscopic inspection was undertaken and no obvious differences in cell confluency or cell structure were observed between the control and drug treated flasks after 24 h and the concentration range of dithranol was comparable with doses that induce minimal apoptosis in highly confluent HaCaT cells."	"Sample preparation was performed on both the cells as well as the spent culture media (footprint or exometabolome) were analysed. The method for cellular analysis was essentially the same as Teng et al. [Teng Q, Huang WL, Collette TW, Ekman DR, Tan C (2009) A direct cell quenching method for cell-culture based metabolomics. Metabolomics 5 (2):199-208. doi:10.1007/s11306-008-0137-z], but rather than washing with ice cold phosphate buffered saline (PBS) we used room temperature PBS (15 mL) in order to reduce temperature shock to the cells. This brief washing took ca. 5 s, after which the cells were quenched and extracted using 100% methanol (7 mL, -48 °C) and detached from the surface by scraping the cells with a disposable cell scraper (Corning, UK). The methanol/cell mixture was thentransferred to a centrifuge tube for extraction. Extraction was aided by three freeze-thaw cycles to liberate as many metabolites as possible. After centrifugation (14°C, 5 min, 16200 g) to pellet the cell debris the supernatant was stored at -80°C. The spent culture media were aspirated from each culture flask and filtered through a 0.45 μm pore size cellulose acetate membrane syringe filter to remove any remaining cellular debris. The filtered metabolic footprint samples were aliquoted (1 mL) into centrifuge tubes and immediately snap frozen in liquid nitrogen. All samples were stored at -80°C.
"	"EZ:faast Free (Physiological) Amino Acid provided column (Zebron™ ZB-AAA GC Column)"	"The derivatized sample was injected (3µ) split ratio of 10 into a Thermo Electron Trace GC Ultra equipped with amino acid column (Phenomenex; injector temperature = 220°C, helium carrier gas flow rate = 1.1 ml/min). The initial column temperature was 110°C; this was held for 2 min and then increased by 30°C/min to 310°C. The column effluent was introduced into a Trace DSQ quadrupole mass spectrometer (Thermo Electron; transfer line temperature = 320°C, ion source temperature = 240°C, electron beam = 70 eV). The detector was turned on after a solvent delay of 120 s, and data were collected in full scan mode using 3 scans/s across a mass range of 50–450 m/z."	"Samples were analysed in a random order using a Agilent 6890 N gas chromatograph and 7683 autosampler (Agilent Technologies, Stockport, UK) coupled to a LECO Pegasus III electron impact time-of-flight mass spectrometer (LECO Corporation, St Joseph, USA)."	"Initial data processing of raw data was undertaken using LECO ChromaTof v2.12 software to construct a data matrix (metabolite peak vs. sample no.) including response ratios (peak area metabolite/peak area succinic-d4 acid internal standard) for each metabolite peak in each sample. Metabolite identifications were assigned through searching and matching against an in-house constructed library and also the NIST02 and Golm metabolome libraries. A definitive match (MSI level 1) means that the retention index and mass spectrum match that of an authentic standard analysed on the same instrument. A putative match (MSI level 2) implies that the mass spectrum can be matched only to a non-Manchester library and cannot be confirmed via an in-house comparison. This process corresponds with the minimum reporting standards proposed for chemical analysis."	"Footprint (200 μL) and fingerprint (1 mL) aliquots (7 mL in total) were spiked with 100 μL internal standard solution (1.32 mg/mL succinic d4 acid, 1.12 mg/mL malonic d2 acid, 1.08 mg/mL glycine d5); vortex mixed and lyophilised overnight (Eppendorf Vacufuge Concentrator 5301, Eppendorf, UK). A two-stage chemical derivatisation was performed on the dried sample, 80 μL of 20 mg/mL O-methylhydroxylamine solution was added and heated at 40°C for 90 min followed by addition of 80 μL MSTFA (N-acetyl-N-[trimethylsilyl]-trifluoroacetamide) and heating at 40°C for 90 min. 20 μL of a retention index solution(4 mg/mL n-decane, n-dodecane, n-pentadecane, n-nonadecane, n-docosane dissolved in hexane) was added."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	"LECO ChromaTof"	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	"2.12"	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Post Extraction;Derivatization"	"Chromatography Instrument;Column type;Column model"	"Scan polarity;Scan m/z range;Instrument;Mass analyzer;Ion source"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Salek"
Study Person First Name	"Reza"
Study Person Mid Initials	""
Study Person Email	"rms72@cam.ac.uk"
Study Person Phone	"+44 (0)1223 764948"
Study Person Fax	"+44 (0)1223 333345"
Study Person Address	"Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, 80 Tennis Court Road, Cambridge, CB2 1GA, UK"
Study Person Affiliation	"University of Cambridge"
Study Person Roles	"Research associate"
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	"http://purl.bioontology.org/ontology/SNOMEDCT/224614003"
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	"SNOMEDCT"
