ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"NCBITAXON"	"OBI"	"BTO"	"MS"	"CHMO"	"NCIT"	"MS"	"EFO"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/BTO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHMO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCIT"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	
Term Source Version	"2"	"22"	"22"	"86"	"18"	"44"	"129"	"113"	
Term Source Description	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"BRENDA Tissue and Enzyme Source Ontology"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	"Chemical Methods Ontology"	"National Cancer Institute Thesaurus"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS420"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	"D:backup arc049 94.10.16gilaniMy DocumentsKGMetaboLightsConfigurationsMetaboLightsConfig20150707"
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	"MetaboLightsConfig20150707"
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS420"
Study Title	"Untargeted metabolomic profiling of seminal plasma in nonobstructive azoospermia men: A noninvasive detection of spermatogenesis."
Study Description	"Male factor infertility is involved in almost half of all infertile couples. Lack of the ejaculated sperm owing to testicular malfunction has been reported in 6-10% of infertile men, a condition named nonobstructive azoospermia (NOA). In this study, we investigated untargeted metabolomic profiling of the seminal plasma in NOA men using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and advance chemometrics. In this regard, the seminal plasma fluids of 11 NOA men with TESE-negative, nine NOA men with TESE-positive and 10 fertile healthy men (as a control group) were collected. Quadratic discriminate analysis (QDA) technique was implemented on total ion chromatograms (TICs) for identification of discriminatory retention times. We developed multivariate classification models using the QDA technique. Our results revealed that the developed QDA models could predict the classes of samples using their TIC data. The receiver operating characteristic curves for these models were >0.88. After recognition of discriminatory retention time's asymmetric penalized least square, evolving factor analysis, correlation optimized warping and alternating least squares strategies were applied for preprocessing and deconvolution of the overlapped chromatographic peaks. We could identify 36 discriminatory metabolites. These metabolites may be considered discriminatory biomarkers for different groups in NOA."
Study Submission Date	"2017-01-09"
Study Public Release Date	"2017-02-12"
Study File Name	"s_mtbls420.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"untargeted metabolites"	"Male infertility with spermatogenesis disorder"	"chemometrics"	"gas chromatography-mass spectrometry"	"nonobstructive azoospermia"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	""	"http://www.orpha.net/ORDO/Orphanet_399775"	""	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0000497"	""
Study Design Type Term Source REF	""	"EFO"	""	"CHMO"	""
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	"28058728"
Study Publication DOI	"10.1002/bmc.3931"
Study Publication Author List	"Gilany K, Mani-Varnosfaderani A, Minai-Tehrani A, Mirzajani F, Ghassempour A, Sadeghi MR, Amini M, Rezadoost H"
Study Publication Title	"Untargeted metabolomic profiling of seminal plasma in non-obstructive azoospermia men: a non-invasive detection of spermatogenesis."
Study Publication Status	"Published"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"Nonobstructive azoospermia"
Study Factor Type	"Group"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Thesaurus.owl#C43359"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"NCIT"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_mtbls420_metabolite_profiling_mass_spectrometry.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"mass spectrometry"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000470"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"240-MS GC Ion Trap (Varian)"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"Human ejaculates were obtained from 10 men with a proven normal spermogram test as assessed by World Health Organization Manual for Semen Analysis (2010): [Total motility (PR+NP, %)=40; sperm concentration (10^6/ml)=15; sperm morphology (normal forms, %)=4] and from 20 NOA men referred to the Avicenna Infertility Clinic (Tehran, Iran) for infertility treatment. The semen of NOA men was collected before TESE operation and kept for further analysis. Of the 20 NOA men, 11 men were TESE-negative (AZN) and 9 were TESE-positive (AZP). The F (n=10), AZP (n=9) and AZN (n=11) notations are respectively used for the fertile, NOA TESE-negative and NOA TESE-positive groups in subsequent parts of the paper. The study was approved by the ethical committee of Avicenna Research Institute, Tehran, Iran (code 910107–023).
</p>
TESE is a common operation performed on the testicle and is an invasive method for detection of sperm from the nonobstructive azoospermia men. The surgeon removes eight to 10 small parts of the testicle looking for the existence of the sperm under microscope. If the sperm exist then it is TESE-positive and if there is no sperm it is TESE-negative. When there is sperm they will use it for ICSI. In order to increase the accuracy of the TESE-positive and TESE-negative diagnosis in this work, the TESE operation was repeated twice on each sample to confirm the results of previous test (i.e. it was repeated twice for each sample)."	"The human seminal plasma was purified by centrifugation of semen (3000 rpm, 10 min, 25 °C), then supernatant (seminal plasma) was collected and stored at -20 °C until further analysis. Prior to analysis by GC–MS the seminal plasma samples were extracted to separate polar metabolites from nonpolar (lipophilic) metabolites. The polar metabolites were subjected to further analysis by GC–MS. Each sample was analyzed in triplicate by GC-MS which gave almost 90 runs. These samples were run over a period of time.
</p>
Polar metabolites are extracted briefly as follows: an aliquot of 400 µl of seminal plasma was extracted with 500 µl of cold HPLC-grade methanol–double-distilled water (9:1 vol/vol) and vortexed for 1 min. The sample was kept at 4 °C for 20 min and then centrifuged at 6000 rpm for 8 min. After centrifugation, 300–400 µl of the supernatant was evaporated to dryness using a Speedvac concentrator (Savant Instruments Inc., SDC-100-H, Farmingdale, NY, USA). After Speedvac evaporation, a common protocol for carbonyl methoximation and hydroxyl, primary amine and thiolsilylation was followed for the polar metabolites. Extracted residues were reconstituted in 40 µl of 20 mg/ml methoxyamine hydrochloride (Sigma-Aldrich) in ACS-grade pyridine and incubated at room temperature for 16 h. Then 50 µl of N-methyl-N-trifluoroacetamide with 1% trimethylchlorosilane derivatization agent (Pierce) was added and incubated at 37 °C for 1 h on a hotplate. The samples were vortexed twice during incubation to ensure complete dissolution. Derivatized samples were stored for <48 h at 4 °C until analysis."	"Derivatized extracts were analyzed using a Varian ion trap MS 4000 GC–MS. A 2 µl aliquot was injected with a 5:1 split ratio onto a 30 m x 0.32 mm x 0.125 µm Stabilwax-DA column (Restek Corp.). The injector port temperature was held at 250 °C and the helium carrier gas flow rate was set to 1 ml/min at an initial oven temperature of 50 °C. The oven temperature was increased at 10 °C/min to 310 °C for a final run time of 35 min."	"Derivatized extracts were analyzed using a Varian ion trap MS 4000 GC–MS operating in electron impact (EI) ionization mode. Full-scan spectra (50–600 m/z; 2 scans/s) were acquired after a 7 min solvent delay, with an MS ion source temperature of 200 °C. All of the conditions mentioned above were optimized using the one-variable-at-a-time strategy to yield the highest values of the area under the GC peaks with reasonable resolutions.
</p>
The collected data was modelled using a principal component analysis (PCA) program followed by a genetic algorithm–quadratic discriminant analysis (GA-QDA) algorithm. After alignment and augmentation, the evolving factor analysis (EFA) and multivariate curve resolution-alternating least squares (MCR-ALS) techniques were used for processing of the data and extraction of pure concentration profiles and mass spectra (see the Methods section in the paper associated with this study for more detail)."	"No information was supllied regarding data format conversion in this study."	"The extracted mass spectra have been searched in NIST-MS Search V2.0 software . The chemical library of this software contains more than 600,000 unique molecules with EI-MS data. The match factor, reverse match factor (which is the square root of the normalized dot product between the MCR-ALS resolved mass spectrum and the possible standard mass spectrum candidate from NIST MS library), rank number in the library, Kovats retention index and prominent MS peaks (m/z) were applied for identifying the components. The values of retention indices were used for further confirmation of the identified metabolites. However, in the most cases, identification was based on the comparison of the MCR-ALS resolved mass spectra of metabolites with those of the standards stored in NIST MS database."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Post Extraction;Derivatization"	"Chromatography Instrument;Column type;Column model"	"Scan polarity;Scan m/z range;Instrument;Mass analyzer;Ion source"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Gilany"
Study Person First Name	"Kambiz"
Study Person Mid Initials	""
Study Person Email	"k.gilany@ari.ir"
Study Person Phone	"989112163244"
Study Person Fax	"982122432021"
Study Person Address	"Evin, Tehran, Iran. P.O.BOX: 19615-1177"
Study Person Affiliation	"Reproductive Biotechnology Research Center, Avicenna Research Institute, ACECR"
Study Person Roles	""
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""
