ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"NCBITAXON"	"EFO"	"BAO"	"MS"	"OBI"	"SNOMEDCT"	"UO"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/BAO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/SNOMEDCT"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/UO"	
Term Source Version	"6"	"113"	"19"	"129"	"22"	"9"	"43"	
Term Source Description	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	"BioAssay Ontology"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine - Clinical Terms"	"Units of Measurement Ontology"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS359"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	""
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	""
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS359"
Study Title	"Metabolomic analysis of the mechanism of action of yerba mate extract on Salmonella Typhimurium"
Study Description	"Background: Salmonella Typhimurium is a gram-negative enteropathogen that infects millions worldwide; the rapid emergence of antibiotic resistant strains has heightened the urgency of developing effective treatment for this pathogen. Previous studies have demonstrated that the aqueous extract of yerba mate (Ilex paraguariensis) provides effective therapy, in vitro, for the drug-resistant S. Typhimurium DT104. Unfortunately, while some of the chemical constituents that contribute to the extract’s antibacterial activity have been identified, the mechanism of action of the extract is still unknown and of crucial importance to its future potential in combating antibiotic resistant bacteria.</br> Results: Yerba mate extract altered central carbon metabolism in S. Typhimurium, reduced catalase activity by means other than direct inhibition, and did not change membrane integrity (except at the initial 0 time point, where differences were not resolved) despite a significant increase in the production of a cell wall precursor. Additional significant differences were observed in the global metabolic regulators alpha-ketoglutarate and acetylphosphate, the energy-related molecule NAD+, and in an unexpected match to the antibacterial compound yohimbine.</br> Conclusions: This work provides the first insight into the mechanism of action of yerba mate extract on S. Typhimurium by revealing a major impact on central carbon metabolism, catalase activity, and possible metabolic links to interference in energy production and membrane integrity. The putative identification of the antibacterial compound yohimbine and the many unidentified compounds provides additional avenues for future investigations of novel yerba mate compounds capable of traversing or binding to S. Typhimurium’s membrane."
Study Submission Date	"2016-07-03"
Study Public Release Date	"2017-01-01"
Study File Name	"s_SalmonellaMetabolomics.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"antibacterial agent"	"Plant extract"	"metabolomic profiling"	"high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry"	"untargeted metabolites"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHEBI_33282"	"http://purl.bioontology.org/ontology/SNOMEDCT/289941004"	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000752"	""	""
Study Design Type Term Source REF	"BAO"	"SNOMEDCT"	"EFO"	""	""
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	""
Study Publication DOI	"DOI: 10.1007/s11306-016-1159-6"
Study Publication Author List	"Caroline S. Rempe, Scott C. Lenaghan, Kellie P. Burris, and C. Neal Stewart, Jr."
Study Publication Title	"Metabolomic analysis of the mechanism of action of yerba mate extract on Salmonella Typhimurium"
Study Publication Status	"Published"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"treatment"	"replicate"	"time"
Study Factor Type	"antibacterial agent"	"biological replicate"	"time"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHEBI_33282"	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0002091"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/PATO_0000165"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"BAO"	"EFO"	"BAO"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_salmonellametabolomics_metabolite_profiling_mass_spectrometry.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"mass spectrometry"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000470"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"Exactive Plus (Thermo Scientific)"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"Salmonella Typhimurium DT104 strain 2576 was obtained from the Department of Food Science and Technology at the University of Tennessee. Stock cultures of S. Typhimurium strains were stored in 25% glycerol at -20 °C. Cultures were started from frozen stocks and re-inoculated daily in tryptic soy broth (TSB) for 2-3 days before an experiment. To score the CFUs at a given time interval, 100 μl samples were serially diluted in 0.1% sterile peptone and pour-plated in duplicate using tryptic soy agar (TSA). S. Typhimurium plates were grown aerobically at 37 °C for 24 h. Following incubation, CFUs were enumerated. 

Yerba mate extract (80 mg/ml) was reconstituted in MOPS buffer pH 7.3, adjusted to a final pH of 7.3 with 1 M KOH, and syringe-filtered through 0.22 μm Express PES Membrane (Millipore, Billerica, Ma., USA) prior to microbial susceptibility testing.  All growth experiments were performed in 125 ml flasks containing 12.5 ml TSB, 10 ml reconstituted yerba mate extract or MOPS buffer pH 7.3, and 2.5 ml S. Typhimurium for a total volume of 25 ml. Five ml of ca. 20 h culture was pelleted at 15,000 g for 1 minute at 4 °C, the supernatant decanted, and the pellet resuspended in 5 ml PBS to achieve a ca. 9 log(CFU/ml) starting concentration. 2.5 ml PBS was substituted for bacteria in a no-bacteria control and MOPS pH 7.3 buffer was substituted for yerba mate extract in a no-tea control. Experiments were conducted aerobically at 37 °C with shaking at 150 rpm. At times 0, 40 min, and 4 h, 500 μl of cells were removed."	"The 500 μl of cells sampled at three time points were immediately diluted in 4.5 ml PBS, mixed, and vacuum filtered with 0.4 μm polycarbonate filters. The filters were placed face-down in 1.3 ml cold (20 °C) extraction solvent (4:4:2 AcN:MeOH:H2O) for 20 min at 20 °C. In a 4 °C cold room, any remaining cells were washed from the filter with 400 μl extraction solvent and pelleted at 13,000 rpm for 5 min. All extraction solvent fractions for a single sample were combined, dried under flowing nitrogen, resuspended in 300 μl of milliQ water, and transferred to a centrifuge tube. Six biological replicates were done, but contamination found in CFU plates prompted the exclusion of 3 replicates. "	"All samples were randomized in a 4 ˚C autosampler tray, from which 10 ul aliquots were injected into a Synergi 2.5 micron Hydro-RP 100, 100 x 2.00 mm liquid chromatography column (Phenomenex) maintained at 25 ˚C. A gradient across solvents A (97:3 water:methanol, 10 mM tributylamine, and 15 mM acetic acid ) and B (methanol) was run with 0% B for 5 min, 20 % B for 8 min, 55% B for 2.5 min, 95% B for 3.5 min, and finally 0 % B for 6 min using a 200 µl/min flow rate.  "	"The column eluted to an electrospray ionization (ESI) source coupled to a mass spectrometer by a 0.1 mm internal diameter fused silica capillary tube. A Thermo Scientific Exactive Plus orbitrap mass spectrometer was run in fullscan mode with negative ionization using a published method [1]. Instrument parameters were set to a spray voltage of 3 kV, a nitrogen sheath gas flow of 10 psi with a capillary temperature of 320 ˚C, an automatic gain control (AGC) target of 3e6, a resolution of 140,000, a scan window of 85 to 800 m/z from 0 to 9 minutes and a scan window of 110 to 1000 m/z from 9 to 24 minutes.</br>
</p>
Ref:</br>
[1] Lu W, Clasquin MF, Melamud E, Amador-Noguez D, Caudy AA, Rabinowitz JD. (2010) Metabolomic analysis via reversed-phase ion-pairing liquid chromatography coupled to a stand alone orbitrap mass spectrometer. Anal Chem, 82(8), 3212-21."	"Data was converted from Thermo .raw files to .mzML using msconvert from ProteoWizard (Chambers, Maclean, & Burke, 2012).  Peak selection was done with Maven (Melamud, Vastag, & Rabinowitz, 2010) version 767 using the default model. Parameters for peak selection were: mass domain resolution of 5 ppm, time domain resolution of 10 scans, EIC smoothing of 3 scans, peak grouping of 0.5 min, drop 80% intensities to get baseline, baseline smoothing of 10 scans, 3 minimum good peaks, minimum signal/baseline ration of 5, minumum peak width of 10 scans, minimum signal/blank ration of 5, and minimum peak intensity of 10000 ions.  Peak intensity data in the resulting data matrix was normalized to biomass by scaling the intensity for each sample. All samples were arbitrarily scaled to the intensity value of the first sample (7.35×108 CFU/ml counts). To investigate treatment and time differences, the data matrix was analyzed as a randomized block design, blocked on replicate, with split plots of time. A split plot analysis was considered sufficient when the change in Akaike information criterion (AIC) was less than 3 between a repeated measures model with an adjusted correlation structure (AR1) and a split plot model without a defined correlation structure. In 131 of the 7693 untargeted metabolites that were normal and had equal variance, the change in AIC was greater than 3, so a repeated measures correlation structure was used in those cases. The three flask treatments were control_no_tea (0 mg/ml yerba mate extract with S. Typhimurium), tea (80 mg/ml yerba mate extract with S. Typhimurium), and control_no_bacteria (80 mg/ml yerba mate extract with PBS instead of bacteria). ANOVA assumptions were tested in R with the Levene test for equal variance (P>0.05) and the Shapiro-Wilks test for normality (W>0.80). If these assumptions were not met or if errors occurred in the lme analysis (i.e. “computationally singular matrix”), metabolites were not included in the analysis. Otherwise, data were analyzed using linear mixed models (package nlme, R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria). P-values were collected from a Tukey’s honestly significant differences (HSD) analysis implemented with the R glht function from the multcomp package. Tukey HSD p-values were adjusted for multiple comparisons with the Benjamini-Hochberg method (false discovery rate 0.05, R function p.adjust) as a single family across all metabolites. ANOVA p-values across treatments were adjusted with the Benjamini-Hochberg correction as a separate group across all metabolites. Metabolites with an ANOVA p-value of P< 0.05 across all treatments that additionally had a Tukey HSD contrast p-value of P<0.05 were ranked by the most positive to most negative fold-change in the results tables. "	"Metabolites were identified based on an in-house library of 260 compounds that had been run as pure standards on the same instrument and with the same methods used for the samples. Names were matched to peaks within 5 ppm m/z and 1.5 minutes of the observed m/z and retention time of the pure standard. If multiple peaks were within the range of a single compound, the peak closest to the observed retention time that did not appear to be a shoulder peak was selected."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Post Extraction;Derivatization"	"Chromatography Instrument;Column type;Column model"	"Scan polarity;Scan m/z range;Instrument;Mass analyzer;Ion source"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Rempe"
Study Person First Name	"Caroline"
Study Person Mid Initials	"S. "
Study Person Email	"crempe@vols.utk.edu"
Study Person Phone	""
Study Person Fax	""
Study Person Address	""
Study Person Affiliation	"University of Tennessee"
Study Person Roles	""
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""
