ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"OBI"	"CSEO"	"NCBITAXON"	"MS"	"NCIT"	"CHMO"	"BTO"	"UO"	"EFO"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CSEO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCIT"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHMO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/BTO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/UO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	
Term Source Version	"22"	"2"	"4"	"86"	"44"	"16"	"26"	"42"	"113"	
Term Source Description	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"Cigarette Smoke Exposure Ontology"	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	"National Cancer Institute Thesaurus"	"Chemical Methods Ontology"	"BRENDA Tissue and Enzyme Source Ontology"	"Units of Measurement Ontology"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS191"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	""
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	""
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS191"
Study Title	"The use of metabolomics to monitor simultaneous changes in metabolic variables following supramaximal low volume high intensity exercise"
Study Description	"High intensity exercise (HIE) stimulates greater physiological remodeling when compared to workload matched low-moderate intensity exercise. This study utilized an untargeted metabolomics approach to examine the metabolic perturbations that occur following two workload matched supramaximal low volume HIE trials. In a randomized order, 7 untrained males completed two exercise protocols separated by 1 week; (1) HIE150%: 30 x 20 s cycling at 150% VO2peak, 40 s passive rest; (2) HIE300%: 30 x 10 s cycling at 300% VO2peak, 50 s passive rest. Total exercise duration was 30 min for both trials. Blood samples were taken at rest, during and immediately following exercise and at 60 min post exercise. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis of plasma identified 43 known metabolites of which 3 demonstrated significant fold changes (HIE300% compared to the HIE150% value) during exercise, 14 post exercise and 23 at the end of the recovery period. Significant changes in plasma metabolites relating to lipid metabolism [fatty acids: dodecanoate (p=0.042), hexadecanoate (p=0.001), octadecanoate (p=0.001)], total cholesterol (p=0.001), and glycolysis [lactate (p=0.018)] were observed following exercise and during the recovery period. The HIE300% protocol elicited greater metabolic changes relating to lipid metabolism and glycolysis when compared to HIE150% protocol. These changes were more pronounced throughout the recovery period rather than during the exercise bout itself. Data from the current study demonstrate the use of metabolomics to monitor intensity-dependent changes in multiple metabolic pathways following exercise. The small sample size indicates a need for further studies in a larger sample cohort to validate these findings."
Study Submission Date	"2015-04-08"
Study Public Release Date	"2015-06-15"
Study File Name	"s_VUHIIES1.txt"
Comment[Time]	""
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"exercise"	"untargeted metabolites"	"Lipidomics"	"Glycolysis Pathway"	"high intensity excercise"	"gas chromatography-mass spectrometry"	"low volume"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000483"	""	"http://scai.fraunhofer.de/CSEO#lipidomics"	"http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Thesaurus.owl#C39095"	""	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0000497"	""
Study Design Type Term Source REF	"EFO"	""	"CSEO"	"NCIT"	""	"CHMO"	""
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	""
Study Publication DOI	"10.1007/s11306-015-0883-7"
Study Publication Author List	"Jessica Danaher, Tracey Gerber, R. Mark Wellard, Christos G. Stathis, and Matthew B. Cooke"
Study Publication Title	"The use of metabolomics to monitor simultaneous changes in metabolic variables following supramaximal low volume high intensity exercise."
Study Publication Status	"Published"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"Time"
Study Factor Type	"timepoint"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000724"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"EFO"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_VUHIIES1.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"mass spectrometry"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000470"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"Aligent"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"Seven healthy recreationally active males (22.9 ± 5.0 year; 81.6 ± 4.9 kg; 178.7 ± 4.5 cm; 50.0 ± 6.1 ml kg/min VO2peak) were asked to complete two supramaximal low volume, high intensity exercise (HIE) protocols in a randomized order and separated by at least one week: 1) HIE150%: 30 x 20 s cycling at 150% VO2peak, 40 s passive rest (348 ± 27 W); 2) HIE300%: 30 x 10 s cycling at 300% VO2peak, 50 s passive rest (697 ± 54 W). Exercise trials were 30 min in duration and workload matched by manipulating exercise intensity and the duration of cycling and rest intervals. HIE was preceded by a rest period and followed by 60 min passive recovery in a supine position. Blood was sampled at rest, 10 min into exercise (EX10), immediately after exercise (EX30) and at the end of the 60 min recovery period (RC60). Samples were immediately placed into lithium heparin tubes and centrifuged at 12,000 rpm for 2 min. Plasma was decanted and stored at -80 °C for later GCMS analysis."	"50 µl of each lithium heparin treated plasma sample was diluted with 150 µl of MeOH [spiked with 4% 13C6-Sorbitol as an extraction internal standard (ISTD)]. The samples were briefly vortexed and placed on ice for 10 min prior to being centrifuged at 13,200 rpm for 5 min at 4 °C to precipitate any protein present. 100 µl supernatant was separated and transferred into 6 mm diameter conical bottom glass vial inserts that had been placed inside eppendorf vials. An additional 10 µl supernatant from each extracted sample was combined into a separate eppendorf vial, which was vortexed and used to create 5 x 100 µl pooled biological quality control (PBQC) glass vial inserts. Eppendorf vials containing inserts were then dried in vacuo at a temperature of -55 °C and pressure of 3 mbar for 2 hr. Glass vial inserts were then placed into 2 ml wide top glass vials and covered with metallic crimp caps (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, USA). Additional glass vials containing MeOX (methyloxime) (10 µl per sample) and TMS (trimethysilyl) (20 µl per sample) were prepared for derivatisation."	"The GC-MS system used comprised of a 7890A Agilent gas chromatograph triple-quadrupole and a 5975C Agilent triple-axis mass selective detector (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, USA). A Gerstal Technologies MPS2XL GC-MS autosampler was set to select samples for analysis in a randomized order. MeOX and TMS derivatized samples were injected onto the GC column using a hot needle technique. The injection was operated in both a splitless (1 ul sample) and split (0.20 ul sample) modes to avoid overloaded chromatogram peaks. An inlet temperature of 230°C and helium was used as the carrier gas with a flow rate of 1 ml per min along a 30 m VF-5MS column with 0.25 µm film thickness, and a 10 m Integra guard column, for chromatographic separation."	"The GC-MS system used comprised of a 7890A Agilent gas chromatograph triple-quadrupole and a 5975C Agilent triple-axis mass selective detector (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, USA). The MS transfer line to the quadrupole was fixed at 280°C, the EI ion source fixed at 250 °C, and the MS quadrupole fixed at 150 °C. The oven set up for sample analysis was: injection temperature of 70 °C for a 1 min hold, followed by 1 °C per min  increase to 76 °C (with no hold), and a 7 °C per min  increase to a final temperature of 325 °C for a 5 min hold. The GC-MS system was equilibrated for 1 min at 70 °C prior to the injection of the next sample. Ions were generated by a 70 eV electron beam at an ionization current of 2.0 mA and spectra were recorded at 2.91 scans per second with a mass-to-charge ratio of 50 to 550 atomic mass units (amu) scanning range."	"An Automated Mass Spectral Deconvolution and Identification System (AMDIS) was used to analyze the chromatogram. A random PBQC was used for data filtering (to remove background noise), deconvolution (to align peaks and correct for retention time drifts between runs) and peak detection (via characteristics of each ion including m/z ratio, retention time and ion intensity). Using the in house Metabolomics Australia (University of Melbourne, Australia) mass spectra library the mass spectra was then additionally verified by analysis of reference standard compounds.  MassHunter was then used to analyze the relative response ratio for each detected peak (the area of each unique ion) from a randomly selected PBQC, prior to being applied to the remainder of the batch."	"Metabolites were identified according to metabolomics standards initiative (MSI) level 1. Overloaded peaks (lactate, glucose, mannose, sucrose, fructose, urea and cholesterol) were analyzed separately from the split mode. Relative response ratio data for each compound detected in each sample was normalized to the ISTD (13C6-Sorbitol). MetaboAnalyst 2.0 was used to generate multivariate analysis pattern analysis models. PCA analysis was performed using the prcomp function. Additional normalization via a generalized log transformation was applied to the data matrix used in order to improve symmetry prior to PC generation. Samples were summarized into scores which are weighted average profiles (loadings) of the original variables."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Post Extraction;Derivatization"	"Chromatography Instrument;Autosampler model;Column model;Column type;Guard column"	"Scan polarity;Scan m/z range;Instrument;Ion source;Mass analyzer"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	";"	";;;;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	";"	";;;;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Danaher"	"Cooke"
Study Person First Name	"Jessica"	"Matthew"
Study Person Mid Initials	""	"B"
Study Person Email	"jessica.danaher@vu.edu.au"	"matt.cooke@vu.edu.au"
Study Person Phone	"+610383958205"	"+610399192566"
Study Person Fax	""	"+610399192465"
Study Person Address	""	"Victoria University, Footscray, Melb, Australia"
Study Person Affiliation	"Victoria University"	"Victoria University"
Study Person Roles	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""	""
