ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"NCBITAXON"	"OBI"	"NCIT"	"CHMO"	"UO"	"CHEBI"	"BTO"	"EFO"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCIT"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHMO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/UO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHEBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/BTO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	
Term Source Version	"2"	"23"	"28"	"5"	"42"	"80"	"29"	"113"	
Term Source Description	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"National Cancer Institute Thesaurus"	"Chemical Methods Ontology"	"Units of Measurement Ontology"	"Chemical Entities of Biological Interest Ontology"	"BRENDA Tissue and Enzyme Source Ontology"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS9"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	""
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	""
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS9"
Study Title	"Metabolic response to low-level toxicant exposure in a novel renal tubule epithelial cell system"
Study Description	"Toxicity testing is vital to protect human health from exposure to toxic chemicals in the environment. Furthermore, combining novel cellular models with molecular profiling technologies, such as metabolomics can add new insight into the molecular basis of toxicity and provide a rich source of biomarkers that are urgently required in a 21st Century approach to toxicology. We have used an NMR-based metabolic profiling approach to characterise for the first time the metabolome of the RPTEC/TERT1 cell line, an immortalised non-tumour human renal epithelial cell line that recapitulates phenotypic characteristics that are absent in other in vitro renal cell models. RPTEC/TERT1 cells were cultured with either the dosing vehicle (DMSO) or with exposure to one of six compounds (nifedipine, potassium bromate, monuron, D-mannitol, ochratoxin A and sodium diclofenac), several of which are known to cause renal effects. Aqueous intracellular and culture media metabolites were profiled by 1H NMR spectroscopy at 6, 24 and 72 hours of exposure to a low effect dose (IC10). We defined the metabolome of the RPTEC/TERT1 cell line and used a principal component analysis approach to derive a panel of key metabolites, which were altered by chemical exposure. By considering only major changes (+/- 1.5 fold change from control) across this metabolite panel we were able to show specific alterations to cellular processes associated with chemical treatment. Our findings suggest that metabolic profiling of RPTEC/TERT1 cells can report on the effect of chemical exposure on multiple cellular pathways at low-level exposure, producing different response profiles for the different compounds tested with a greater number of major metabolic effects observed in the toxin treated cells. Importantly, compounds with established links to chronic renal toxicity produced more diverse and severe perturbations to the cellular metabolome than non-toxic compounds in this model. As these changes can be rationalised with the different pharmacological and toxicity profiles of the chemicals it is suggested that metabolic profiling in the RPTEC/TERT1 model would be useful in investigating the mechanism of action of toxins at a low dose."
Study Submission Date	"2017-09-18"
Study Public Release Date	"2017-09-18"
Study File Name	"s_MTBLS9.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"Toxicity Test"	"RPTEC/TERT1 cell line"	"nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy"	"untargeted metabolites"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	"http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Thesaurus.owl#C17755"	""	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0000591"	""
Study Design Type Term Source REF	"NCIT"	""	"CHMO"	""
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	"21103459"
Study Publication DOI	"10.1039/c0mb00146e"
Study Publication Author List	"Ellis JK, Athersuch TJ, Cavill R, Radford R, Slattery C, Jennings P, McMorrow T, Ryan MP, Ebbels TM, Keun HC"
Study Publication Title	"Metabolic response to low-level toxicant exposure in a novel renal tubule epithelial cell system."
Study Publication Status	"Published"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"Compound"	"Time point"	"Batch"	"Replicate"	"Metabolite source"
Study Factor Type	"Compound"	"timepoint"	"block"	"technical replicate"	"material sample"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Thesaurus.owl#C43366"	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000724"	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0005067"	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0002090"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000747"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"NCIT"	"EFO"	"EFO"	"EFO"	"EFO"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_mtbls9_cpmgpr_NMR_spectroscopy.txt"	"a_mtbls9_np1d_NMR spectroscopy.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"NMR spectroscopy"	"NMR spectroscopy"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000623"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000623"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"Bruker"	"Bruker"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"NMR sample"	"NMR spectroscopy"	"NMR assay"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"NMR sample"	"NMR spectroscopy"	"NMR assay"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"The human renal proximal tubular epithelial cell line, RPTEC/TERT1 was originally obtained from the developing laboratory of Dr. Grillari-Voglauer (Institute of Applied Microbiology, BOKU-University of Natural Resources and Applied Life Sciences, Vienna). Cells were maintained in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium Nutrient Mix F12 (1:1) (Gibco) containing 2 mM L-Glutamine (Gibco), 36 ng/ml hydrocortisone (Sigma), 10 ng/ml recombinant human epidermal growth factor (EGF, Sigma), 50 U/ml penicillin, 50 µg/ml streptomycin (Gibco), 5 µg/ml insulin, 5 µg/ml transferrin and 5 ng/ml selenium (ITS(Sigma)). Culture medium was replaced with fresh medium every 48 hr. Cells were maintained in 75 cm2 Costar flasks at 37 °C in a humidified atmosphere containing 95% air and 5% CO2. For compound treatments, cells were grown to confluency and cultured for 10 days prior to experimentation. Control cells were exposed to an appropriate concentration of vehicle control (0.1% v/v dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)). Cells were exposed to the indicated test compound (nifedipine (10 µM), D-mannitol (10 mM), sodium diclofenac (30 µM), monuron (200 µM), ochratoxin A (300 nM), potassium bromate (200 µM)) for 6, 24 or 72 hr.
</p>
For metabolite analysis (at 6, 24 and 72 hr), 1 ml of the culture media was transferred to a fresh Eppendorf™ tube, centrifuged (10,000 rpm, 5 min) to remove dead cells and stored at -80 °C for subsequent analysis. The remaining media was aspirated and each well was washed twice with ~1 ml of Phosphate Buffered Saline (PBS) to remove trace media and the wash solution aspirated. The RPTEC/TERT1 cells were harvested by the addition of 1 ml of methanol to each well (methanol quenching), scraping and transferred to an Eppendorf™ tube. Each well was washed again with 1 ml of methanol and the 2 samples pooled. The pooled methanol quenched sample (2 ml) was dried under a flow of nitrogen gas at room temperature and stored at -80 °C for subsequent extraction."	"Aqueous soluble metabolites were extracted from cultured RPTEC/TERT1 cells using a chloroform/methanol/water extraction method. Briefly, 300 ml of chloroform/methanol (2:1) solution was added to each Eppendorf™ tube containing the dried methanol quenched sample. The sample was then vortex mixed for 30 s, 300 ml of ultrapure water added and vortex mixed again. The sample was centrifuged (16,000 x g, 10 min) and the aqueous and organic layers removed to separate sample tubes (the organic phase was not analyzed in the present study). The extraction process was repeated for each sample and the aqueous sample pooled and left to evaporate at room temperature for ~12 hr to remove any organic solvent."	"The aqueous extract was then freeze dried, reconstituted in 600 µl of phosphate buffer (0.2 M Na2HPO4, 0.043 M NaH2PO4, 100 µM TSP, 3 mM NaN3 in 100% D2O) and centrifuged (16,000 x g, 5 min); of which 550 µl was transferred to a standard 5 mm glass NMR tube for spectroscopic analysis.
</p>
The culture media was prepared for spectroscopic analysis by the addition of 50 µl of D2O (containing 0.2% TSP (w/v)) to 550 µl of media sample, vortex mixed and 550 µl (TSP: 0.97 mM) transferred to a standard 5 mm glass NMR tube. All reagents were checked prior to sample preparation by obtaining a 1D 1H NMR spectrum to ensure that they contain no contaminants that may interfere with the downstream spectroscopic analysis."	"High-resolution, 1D, 1H NMR spectra of reconstituted intracellular aqueous extracts and culture media were acquired at 14.1 T (600.13 MHz 1H frequency) using a Bruker AVANCE 600 spectrometer (Bruker Biospin, Rheinstetten, Germany). A 5 mm broadband-inverse tube probehead held at 300 K was used for all NMR experiments. A BACS 60 automated sample changer (Bruker BioSpin) was used for sample management during the analytical run, with acquisitions controlled using Xwin-NMR/Icon-NMR (Bruker Biospin). All spectra were acquired from randomised cellular or media samples."	"Following sample introduction to the probehead, gradient shimming was used to improve the magnetic field homogeneity. Carr–Purcell–Meiboom–Gill (CPMG) 1H spectra were acquired using the pulse sequence (RD-90°-[t-1801-t]n-AQ). The fixed echo time, t was set to 400 µs, giving a total spin-echo time of 64 ms. During the acquisition period (AQ, 2.73 s), the free induction decay (FID) was recorded into 64 k data-points in the time domain, with a spectral width of 20 ppm. Typically, spectra were recorded as the sum of 128 transients following 16 dummy scans. In both cases, suppression of the water resonance centered at dH = 4.7 ppm was achieved by the application of a presaturation pulse during the relaxation delay (RD, 3 s)."	"Data were imported and manipulated in Matlab (Mathworks) using in-house software written and compiled by Dr T. M. D. Ebbels, Dr H. C. Keun, Dr J. T. Pearce, and Dr R. Cavill. Prior to Fourier transformation, all FIDs were multiplied by an exponential function equivalent to a line broadening of 0.3 Hz. 1H NMR spectra were automatically phased, baseline corrected, and referenced and normalised to the TSP resonance at d 0. For all subsequent analysis culture media data were normalised to TSP but the aqueous intracellular fraction data were normalised to the median fold change. The spectra were digitized using Matlab script developed in-house. 2 levels of data resolution were analyzed: full resolution spectra at 32,697 data points and reduced resolution spectra that comprised of 166 (intracellular fraction) and 96 (media) data points of varying ppm width. The data points in the reduced resolution data for both the intracellular and media analysis were created using a targeted binning approach."	"Assignment of resonances to specific metabolites was based on the Chenomx profiler in the NMR suite 6.1 software (Chenomx Inc, Alberta, Canada), on the addition of known standards to the biological samples, published literature, in-house assignment databases and statistical total correlation spectroscopy (STOCSY). After metabolite identification, manually selected regions of the full resolution spectra were integrated, where possible if a metabolite had multiple resonances they were integrated together in a single region, and unassigned resonances were also integrated. Manual integration reduces the signal multiplicity of a metabolite as multiple resonances from the same molecule can be integrated together, chemical shift can be corrected in some cases by integrating a larger spectrum width and almost all the empty regions of the spectrum are removed. Resonances that were identified as a treatment compound were removed from the analysis (both intracellular and media), as were resonances that were only present in a single batch or treatment group, were unable to be identified as a metabolite and demonstrated no time response. D-mannitol was the only dosing compound which was detectable in the study, in both the intracellular fraction and the culture media. The low concentration (IC10) of the other compounds meant that they were present at levels below the limit of detection of the 1H NMR spectroscopy we performed.
</p>
For multivariate analysis the reduced resolution data were exported to SIMCA-P (Umetrics, USA). Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was applied to the reduced resolution data (intracellular and media) to reveal treatment related effects, as well as monitoring RPTEC/TERT1 metabolic response over time (6–72 h) or batch (2 batches) related effects. A batch related effect was observed in both the intracellular fraction and the culture media. To correct for this batch effect all subsequent analysis was carried out separately for each batch, each batch included 3 toxins and a matched control; Batch 1: control 1, nifedipine, potassium bromate, monuron and batch 2: control 2, D-mannitol, ochratoxin A, sodium diclofenac. A time related effect was also observed in both batches over the 72 h time course of the study. Relative concentrations of media metabolites were converted to a concentration (mM) using the integrated TSP region (0.97 mM). Both the relative intracellular concentrations and media mM concentrations were expressed as change from matched control, where control concentration is equal to one, and the standard error of the mean calculated."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Extraction Method"	"NMR tube type;Temperature;Sample pH;Solvent"	"Magnetic field strength;Number of transients;Pulse sequence name;NMR Probe;Instrument"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	""	";;;"	";;;;"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	""	";;;"	";;;;"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Ellis"	"Ebbels"
Study Person First Name	"James"	"Timothy"
Study Person Mid Initials	"K"	"M D"
Study Person Email	"j.ellis02@imperial.ac.uk"	"t.ebbels@imperial.ac.uk"
Study Person Phone	""	""
Study Person Fax	""	""
Study Person Address	""	""
Study Person Affiliation	""	""
Study Person Roles	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""	""
