ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"UO"	"OBI"	"MS"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/UO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	
Term Source Version	"42"	"22"	"86"	
Term Source Description	"Units of Measurement Ontology"	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS235"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	""
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	""
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS235"
Study Title	"Automated Label-free Quantification of Metabolites from Liquid Chromatography–Mass Spectrometry Data (Simulated)"
Study Description	"Liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (LC-MS) has become a standard technology in metabolomics. In particular, label-free quantification based on LC-MS is easily amenable to large-scale studies and thus well suited to clinical metabolomics. Large-scale studies, however, require automated processing of the large and complex LC-MS datasets. </p> We present a novel algorithm for the detection of mass traces and their aggregation into features (i.e. all signals caused by the same analyte species) that is computationally efficient and sensitive and that leads to reproducible quantification results. The algorithm is based on a sensitive detection of mass traces, which are then assembled into features based on mass-to-charge spacing, co-elution information, and a support vector machine–based classifier able to identify potential metabolite isotope patterns. The algorithm is not limited to metabolites but is applicable to a wide range of small molecules (e.g. lipidomics, peptidomics), as well as to other separation technologies. </p> We assessed the algorithm's robustness with regard to varying noise levels on synthetic data and then validated the approach on experimental data investigating human plasma samples. We obtained excellent results in a fully automated data-processing pipeline with respect to both accuracy and reproducibility. Relative to state-of-the art algorithms, ours demonstrated increased precision and recall of the method. The algorithm is available as part of the open-source software package OpenMS and runs on all major operating systems. </p> See MTBLS234 for the human plasma samples part of this study."
Study Submission Date	"2015-09-25"
Study Public Release Date	"2015-10-06"
Study File Name	"s_Simulated LC-MS Benchmark Dataset.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"targeted metabolites"	"LC-MS label-free quantitation analysis"	"liquid chromatogaphy-mass spectrometry data simulation"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	""	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/MS_1001834"	""
Study Design Type Term Source REF	""	"MS"	""
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	"24176773"
Study Publication DOI	"10.1074/mcp.M113.031278"
Study Publication Author List	"Erhan Kenar, Holger Franken, Sara Forcisi, Kilian Wörmann, Hans-Ulrich Häring, Rainer Lehmann, Philippe Schmitt-Kopplin, Andreas Zell, Oliver Kohlbacher"
Study Publication Title	"Automated Label-free Quantification of Metabolites from Liquid Chromatography–Mass Spectrometry Data"
Study Publication Status	"Published"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"simulated detector noise"	"simulated mass error"	"simulated error profile distortion"
Study Factor Type	"detector noise"	"mass error"	"error profile distortion"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	""	""	""
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_simulated_lc-ms_benchmark_dataset_metabolite_profiling_mass_spectrometry.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"mass spectrometry"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000470"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"MSSimulator"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"The dataset was based on a list of identified plant metabolites from a rather comprehensive study by Giavalisco et al. [1]. The authors reported the elemental composition, intensity, and retention time of hundreds of metabolites in the supplementary information for their study. This information is all that was needed in order to create synthetic datasets with characteristics typical of a complex metabolomics study.
</p>
Ref:</br>
[1] Giavalisco P., Li Y., Matthes A., Eckhardt A., Hubberten H. M., Hesse H., Segu S., Hummel J., Kohl K., Willmitzer L. (2011) Elemental formula annotation of polar and lipophilic metabolites using (13) C, (15) N and (34) S isotope labelling, in combination with high-resolution mass spectrometry. Plant J. 68, 364–376. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-313X.2011.04682.x. PMID:21699588</br>"	"N/A"	"For the generation of synthetic LC-MS datasets, we employed the software package MSSimulator [1]. The simulator creates profile data based on the experimentally determined retention time and the composition of a set of compounds. It can simulate different instrument resolutions, noise levels, and chromatographic performances. The datasets created here were based on experimentally identified metabolites and thus captured the complexity of a real-world sample. At the same time, the simulator provides complete control over signal-to-noise ratio, accuracy, and similar parameters that would be very difficult to vary independently of each other experimentally.
</p>
Ref:</br>
[1] Bielow C., Aiche S., Andreotti S., and Reinert, K. MSSimulator: Simulation of Mass Spectrometry Data J. Proteome Res., 2011, 10 (7), 2922–2929. doi: 10.1021/pr200155f</br>"	"MSSimulator performed a raw signal simulation of 500 metabolites within the range of 100–1,000 m/z and with a simulated gradient runtime of 25 min. The machine-dependent settings of MSSimulator were chosen to be close to those of our experimental MS setup: The simulated MS resolution R was set to 20,000, and the scan time was set at 0.25 s. The output of MSSimulator consists of a centroided LC-MS measurement and a feature map summarizing all simulated metabolites with theoretical retention times, m/z ratios, and intensities. This feature map facilitates comparison between the ground truth (the simulator's input) and the features detected by our algorithm applied to the same simulated data."	"N/A"	"To assess the influence of different sources of noise on the feature-finding performance, we conducted three series of MS simulations, each affected by detector noise, m/z variation, or elution profile distortion. In the first series, we simulated increasing levels of detector noise that were controlled by the Gaussian standard deviation sdet. The second series comprised two datasets simulated with moderate and strong mass errors (Gaussian standard deviation sm/z set to 10 ppm and 40 ppm, respectively). For the third series, we simulated elution profiles with ideal peak shapes and heavily distorted shapes. In MSSimulator, the degree of distortion is controlled by the number of iterations ndist; that is, the greater the number of iterations performed, the more the elution profiles deviate from their smooth Gaussian shape. The configuration for each simulation is summarized in the supplemental material of the publication associated with this study."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Derivatization;Post Extraction"	"Column type;Column model;Chromatography Instrument"	"Scan polarity;Mass analyzer;Ion source;Instrument;Scan m/z range"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Kenar"	"Kohlbacher"
Study Person First Name	"Erhan"	"Oliver"
Study Person Mid Initials	""	""
Study Person Email	"erhan.kenar@uni-tuebingen.de"	"oliver.kohlbacher@uni-tuebingen.de"
Study Person Phone	""	""
Study Person Fax	""	""
Study Person Address	""	""
Study Person Affiliation	"Wilhelm Schickard Institute for Computer Science, University of Tübingen"	"Wilhelm Schickard Institute for Computer Science, University of Tübingen"
Study Person Roles	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""	""
