ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"NCBITAXON"	"BTO"	"CHEBI"	"CHMO"	"EFO"	"NCIT"	"OBI"	"UO"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/BTO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHEBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHMO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCIT"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/UO"	
Term Source Version	"2"	"22"	"80"	"18"	"113"	"44"	"22"	"43"	
Term Source Description	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"BRENDA Tissue and Enzyme Source Ontology"	"Chemical Entities of Biological Interest Ontology"	"Chemical Methods Ontology"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	"National Cancer Institute Thesaurus"	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"Units of Measurement Ontology"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS422"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	"C:ISAcreatorMetaboLightsConfigurationsMetaboLightsConfig20150707"
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	"MetaboLightsConfig20150707"
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS422"
Study Title	"Divergent relationships between faecal microbiota and metabolome following distinct antibiotic-induced disruptions"
Study Description	"The intestinal microbiome plays an essential role in regulating many aspects of host physiology, and its disruption through antibiotic exposure has been implicated in the development of a range of serious pathologies. The complex metabolic relationships that exist between members of the intestinal microbiota, and potential redundancy in functional pathways, means an integrative analysis of changes in both structure and function are needed to understand the impact of antibiotic exposure. We used a combination of next generation sequencing and NMR metabolomics to characterise the effect of two clinically important antibiotic treatments, ciprofloxacin or vancomycin-imipenem, on the intestinal microbiome of female C57BL/6 mice. This assessment was performed longitudinally and spanned both antibiotic challenge and subsequent microbiome re-establishment. Both antibiotics significantly altered microbiota and metabolite composition of faecal pellets during challenge and recovery. Spearman’s correlation analysis of microbiota and NMR data revealed that, while some metabolites could be correlated with individual operational taxonomic units (OTU), frequently multiple OTUs were associated with a significant change in a given metabolite. Furthermore, one metabolite, arginine, can be associated with increases/decreases in different sets of OTUs in differing conditions. Taken together, this indicates that reliance on shifts in one data set alone will generate an incomplete picture of the functional effect of antibiotic intervention. Full mechanistic understanding will require knowledge of the baseline microbiota composition combined with both a comparison and integration of microbiota, metabolomics and phenotypic data. "
Study Submission Date	"2017-01-19"
Study Public Release Date	"2017-02-10"
Study File Name	"s_mouse.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"antibiotic"	"Metabolomics"	"nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer"	"untargeted metabolites"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHEBI_22582"	"http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Thesaurus.owl#C49019"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0001807"	""
Study Design Type Term Source REF	"EFO"	"NCIT"	"CHMO"	""
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	""
Study Publication DOI	"10.1128/mSphere.00005-17"
Study Publication Author List	"Jocelyn M. Choo1†, Tokuwa Kanno2†, Nur Masirah Mohd Zain2, Lex E.X. Leong1, Guy C. J. Abell3, Julie E. Keeble2, Kenneth D. Bruce2, A. James Mason2#, Geraint B. Rogers1#"
Study Publication Title	"Divergent relationships between faecal microbiota and metabolome following distinct antibiotic-induced disruptions"
Study Publication Status	"Accepted for Publication to mSphere"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"Sex"	"Age"	"Treatment"
Study Factor Type	"sex"	"age"	"treatment"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/PATO_0000047"	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000246"	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000727"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"EFO"	"EFO"	"EFO"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_mouse_metabolite_profiling_NMR_spectroscopy.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"NMR spectroscopy"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000623"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"Bruker"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"NMR sample"	"NMR spectroscopy"	"NMR assay"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"NMR sample"	"NMR spectroscopy"	"NMR assay"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"Faeces were collected from 4-week old female C57BL/6 mice at Charles River UK Ltd (Margate, UK) under commercial licence, with all mice maintained and used in accordance with the Animal Scientific Procedures Act (1986) and amendment regulations 2012. All mice were initially housed in one barrier room within the facility and then transferred to an isolator on commencement of antibiotic treatment, where they were divided into three groups of eight mice each (4 mice per cage). The three groups represented a control group (no treatment), and two antibiotic treatment groups (either vancomycin-imipenem or ciprofloxacin). Six week old mice were placed on the same diet (a VRF1 diet, SDS) and antibiotics were dosed at 50 mg/kg/day delivered in drinking water. Fresh medicated solutions were prepared weekly and stored at 4 °C. Water was changed twice weekly and mice were observed closely for any changes in hydration or adverse effects; mice were weighed once a week throughout the study. No significant differences in mass were observed between groups during the study with mice in control, ciprofloxacin and vancomycin-imipenem groups attaining masses of 19.26 ± 1.38 g, 19.45 ± 1.11 and 19.03 ± 0.81 g respectively. One faecal pellet was taken from each mouse at three time points: T1) Prior to commencement of antibiotic treatment, T2) At termination of treatment after fourteen days on antibiotics, T3) Nine days after antibiotic treatment ceased. After collection, pellets were placed into separate, sterile collection tubes and frozen at -80 °C prior to analysis."	"Known mass of mouse faeces were immersed in 1 ml of cold (4 °C) 1 x sterile PBS (pH 7.4) (Thermo Fisher Scientific, UK) and centrifuged at 13,000 x g for 10 mins to form a pellet for DNA extraction. The supernatant was transferred to a fresh microfuge tube for metabolomics study. DNA extraction was performed using MoBio Powerlyzer Powersoil DNA Isolation Kit (MoBio Laboratories, Carlsbad, USA), as previously described [1].</br>
</p>
Ref:</br>
[1] Vicario M, Amat C, Rivero M, Moreto M, Pelegri C. (2007) Dietary glutamine affects mucosal functions in rats with mild DSS-induced colitis. J Nutr 137:1931–1937. "	"Supernatants were obtained from the mouse faeces resuspended in cold PBS. Supernatants were frozen by immersion in liquid nitrogen, lyophilised at -58 °C overnight, and re-suspended in 500 µl D2O. "	"1H NMR spectra were acquired under automation at 298 K and 700 MHz on a Bruker Avance II 700 NMR spectrometer (Bruker Biospin, Coventry, UK) equipped with a 5 mm QCI helium-cooled cryoprobe and a cooled SampleJet sample changer."	"The temperature was allowed to stabilise for 3 min after insertion into the magnet. Tuning, matching and shimming was performed for each sample and the 1H pulse length was calibrated on each sample and was typically around 12 µs. One Dimensional (1D) CPMG-presat (cpmgpr1d) experiments were acquired with 128 transients, a spectral width of 20.5 ppm, 64K data points, a mixing time of 10 ms, a relaxation delay of 4 s and a total echo delay of 78.7 ms. 1D NOESY-presat (noesygppr1d) were also acquired, but with 32 transients. Free induction decays were multiplied with an exponential function (line broadening of 0.3 Hz), fourier transformed and calibrated to a 2,2,3,3,-D4-3-(Trimethylsilyl) propionic acid (TSP) reference signal at 0.0 ppm."	"Phase correction was performed manually and automatic baseline correction was applied. Regions above 8.5 ppm and below 0.5 ppm were excluded because of noise content. The water peak and TSP reference signal were also excluded. Spectra further aligned with the icoshift (68) algorithm and bucketed with the optimized bucketing algorithm (69) using 0.005 ppm minimum bin size leaving 1652 data points per spectrum. These spectra were PQN normalized and pareto-scaled [1].</br>
To help in the assignment of metabolite resonances, 2D J-resolved (jresgpprqf) and COSY (cosygpprqf) spectra were acquired on a subset of samples. In 2D J-resolved spectra, 64 transients of 8K data points were acquired for each of 40 increments with a relaxation delay of 2 s, during which the solvent signal was suppressed by presaturation. Spectral widths of 16 ppm and 78 Hz were used. In 2D COSY spectra, 8 transients of 4K data points were acquired for each of 400 increments with a relaxation delay of 2 s, during which the solvent signal was suppressed by presaturation. A spectral width of 16 ppm was used in each dimension.</br>
</p>
Ref:</br>
[1] Vermeer LS, Fruhwirth GO, Pandya P, Ng T, Mason AJ. (2012) NMR metabolomics of MTLn3E breast cancer cells identifies a role for CXCR4 in lipid and choline regulation. J Proteome Res 11:2996–3003."	"Microbial data were analyzed for alpha diversity measures (taxon richness, S; Shannon-Wiener index, H; Simpson diversity index, 1 to D) of the microbial community using PAST (v3.04) (76). Operational taxonomic unit (OTU) relative abundance was imported into the Primer-E software (v.6; Primer-E Ltd., Plymouth, United Kingdom) for beta diversity analysis. Bray-Curtis similarities were calculated based on the square root-transformed OTU relative abundances and were used in the nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination plot. The permutational analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) model was used for testing the null hypothesis of no difference between the compared groups (54), based on the parameters’ permutation of residuals under a reduced model and a type III sum of squares. PERMDISP was used to assess the dispersion of the microbial community within the groups (54). Microbial differences between groups at the taxonomic level were tested for statistical significance based on the Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney tests using GraphPad Prism 6 (GraphPad Software, Inc., La Jolla, USA). The LEfSe algorithm was performed using the Galaxy application tool (http://huttenhower.sph.harvard.edu/galaxy/) with a linear discriminant analysis cutoff score of 3.0 and a P of <0.05 for statistical significance (55). Functional predictions of microbial community were performed using PICRUSt on closed-reference OTUs with 97% identity based on the Greengenes database (v13.5) (56). The OTUs were normalized on PICRUSt and used for the prediction of KEGG orthologs (KOs). The predicted metagenome was statistically analyzed on STAMP using Welch’s t test with the Benjamini-Hochberg correction for the false-discovery rate (FDR) and filtered to retain features with an effect size (ratio of proportions) of greater than two (77). A heatmap was generated using the ggplots2 package (v2.0.0), and a dendrogram of bacterial taxa was generated based on the Bray-Curtis distances and hierarchical clustering performed using Ward’s method (78, 79). Two and three mice, respectively, were excluded from the microbiota and metabolome analysis, as samples from them failed quality control thresholds.</br>
For analysis of the metabolome data, cross-validation was performed. Seventy-five percent of the samples were used as a training set, and the remaining 25% were used as a test set, ensuring that the number of samples in the test set was proportional to the total number of samples from each class and that at least one sample from each class was present in the test set. To choose the number of components for the model, a leave-one-out cross-validation step was carried out on the samples in the training set, and the F1 was used to choose the number of components, with the additional constraint that a maximum of 8 components was used. A double cross-validation was repeated 2,000 times for each group with randomly chosen samples in the training and test sets to prevent bias due to the choice of training or test set.</br>
This procedure was repeated with randomly generated class assignments to provide a reference value for Q2. The chosen number of components minus one was then used as an OPLS filter, and a PLS-DA with two components was carried out on the filtered data to yield one predictive and one orthogonal component. In the back-scaled loadings analysis, peaks that allow the models to distinguish between classes were assigned by comparing chemical-shift values and multiplicities from J-resolved NMR spectra to values from the BMRB (80), HMDB (81), and Chenomx software. Volcano plots were generated in R. Five samples were excluded from the metabolome analysis, as these samples failed quality control thresholds. Microbiota and metabolome associations based on Spearman’s correlation were performed in R using the corrplot package. Bacterial taxa and metabolites were sorted according to hierarchical clustering based on Euclidean distances, and Ward’s method was used to perform cluster analysis."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Extraction Method"	"NMR tube type;Temperature;Sample pH;Solvent"	"Magnetic field strength;Number of transients;Pulse sequence name;NMR Probe;Instrument"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	""	";;;"	";;;;"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	""	";;;"	";;;;"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Kanno"	"Mason"	"Choo"	"Zain"	"Leong"	"Abell"	"Keeble"	"Bruce"	"Rogers"
Study Person First Name	"Tokuwa"	"A"	"Jocelyn"	"Nur Masirah"	"Lex"	"Guy"	"Julie"	"Kinneth"	"Geraint"
Study Person Mid Initials	""	"James"	"M"	"M."	"E.X."	"C.J."	"E."	"D."	"B."
Study Person Email	"tokuwa.kanno@kcl.ac.uk"	"james.mason@kcl.ac.uk"	"Jocelyn.Choo@sahmri.com"	"masirah.zain@kcl.ac.uk"	"lex.leong@sahmri.com"	"abel0007@uni.flinders.edu.au"	"julie.keeble@kcl.ac.uk"	"kenneth.bruce@kcl.ac.uk"	"Geraint.Rogers@sahmri.com"
Study Person Phone	""	"+44(0)207 848 4813"	""	""	""	""	""	""	"+61 (0)8 8204 7614"
Study Person Fax	""	""	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Person Address	""	"Dr A. James Mason, King’s College London, Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Franklin-Wilkins Building, 150 Stamford street, London, SE1 9NH, UK"	""	""	""	""	""	""	"Associate Professor Geraint Rogers, School of Medicine, Flinders University, University Drive, Bedford Park, Adelaide SA 5042, Australia"
Study Person Affiliation	"King's College London"	"King's College London"	"South Austrailia Health and Medical Research Institute"	"King's College London"	"South Austrailia Health and Medical Research Institute"	"Flinders University"	"King's College London"	"King's College London"	"South Austrailia Health and Medical Research Institute"
Study Person Roles	""	""	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
