ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"OBI"	"BTO"	"EFO"	"CHMO"	"NCBITAXON"	"MS"	"RCD"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/BTO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHMO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/RCD"	
Term Source Version	"25"	"22"	"113"	"5"	"4"	"86"	"3"	
Term Source Description	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"BRENDA Tissue and Enzyme Source Ontology"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	"Chemical Methods Ontology"	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	"Read Codes, Clinical Terms Version 3 (CTV3)"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS69"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	""
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	""
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS69"
Study Title	"Extracts from sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), a feedstock for biorefining, suppressed proliferation and elevated apoptosis in human colon cancer stem cells via suppression of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway"
Study Description	"In colorectal cancer, p53 is commonly inactivated, associated with chemo-resistance, and marks the transition from non-invasive to invasive disease. Cancers, including colorectal cancer, are thought to be diseases of aberrant stem cell populations, as stem cells are able to self-renew, making them long-lived enough to acquire mutations necessary to manifest the disease. We have shown that extracts from sweet sorghum stalk components eliminate colon cancer stem cells (CCSC) in a partial p53-dependent fashion. However, the underlying mechanisms are unknown. In the present study, CCSC were transfected with short hairpin-RNA against p53 (CCSC p53 shRNA) and treated with sweet sorghum phenolics extracted from different plant components (dermal layer, leaf, seed head and whole plant). While all components demonstrated anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects in CCSC, phenolics extracted from the dermal layer and seed head were more potent in eliminating CCSC by elevating caspases 3/7 activity, PARP cleavage, and DNA fragmentation in a p53-dependent and p53-independent fashion, respectively. Further investigations revealed that the anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects were associated with decreases in beta-catenin protein levels, and beta-catenin targets cyclin D1, cMyc, and survivin. These results suggest that the anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects of sweet sorghum extracts against human colon cancer stem cells are via suppression of Wnt/beta-catenin pro-survival signaling in a p53-dependent (dermal layer) and partial p53-independent (seed head) fashion. LCMS used to identify phenolic compounds associated with extract activity"
Study Submission Date	"2014-02-05"
Study Public Release Date	"2014-05-01"
Study File Name	"s_Sweet sorghum LCMS analysis.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"metabolomic profiling"	"Phenolics"	"Untargeted metabolites"	"colorectal cancer"	"stem cell"	"ultra-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000752"	"http://purl.bioontology.org/ontology/RCD/x009P"	""	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0005842"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000034"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0000715"
Study Design Type Term Source REF	"EFO"	"RCD"	""	"EFO"	"EFO"	"CHMO"
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	"24655033"
Study Publication DOI	"doi.org/10.1021/jf405415u"
Study Publication Author List	"Aaron R. Massey, Lavanya Reddivari, and Jairam Vanamala"
Study Publication Title	"The Dermal Layer of Sweet Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) Stalk, a
Byproduct of Biofuel Production and Source of Unique
3‑Deoxyanthocyanidins, Has More Antiproliferative and
Proapoptotic Activity than the Pith in p53 Variants of HCT116 and
Colon Cancer Stem Cells"
Study Publication Status	"Published"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"Replicate"
Study Factor Type	"replicate"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000683"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"EFO"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_sweet sorghum lcms analysis_metabolite profiling_mass spectrometry.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"mass spectrometry"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000470"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"Xevo G2 QTOF (Waters)"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"Sweet sorghum materials from the Dale and M81E varieties used in this study were grown in Bakersfield, CA, and generously provided by Great Valley Energy LLC (Bakersfield, CA)."	"Two extraction solvents were utilized for the study. Acetone (80%) was identified in the literature and empirically as a superior extraction solvent for sweet sorghum dermal and pith layers. Ethanol (80%) was used as a GRAS alternative. Fresh sweet sorghum sample (2 g) was extracted with 20 ml of extraction solvent chilled to −20 °C. This was to prevent excessive heating during the homogenization of the sample. This mixture was then homogenized for 2 min using an IKA T25 digital ultra TURRAX at 10 000 rpm. The tubes were then vortexed, and the resulting mixture was then centrifuged at 4000 rpm for 5 min. The supernatant was filtered using a 0.45 μm PTFE syringe filter (Tisch Scientific, North Bend, OH). The resulting pellet was then resuspended in 20 ml of extraction solvent by vortexing for 1 min and centrifuged, and the supernatant was collected and filtered. This was repeated for a third round of extraction, after which the filtrates were combined and the final volume was brought to 100 ml. The phenolic extracts were then stored at −20 °C until analysis for total phenolics and antioxidant activity and by LC−MS."	"One µl of sample held at 5 °C was injected into a Waters Acquity UPLC system fitted with a Waters Acquity UPLCT3 column (1.8 μm, 1.0 × 100 mm) with 100% solvent A (water, 0.1% formic acid) and this was held for 1 min. This was followed by a 12 min linear gradient to 95% solvent B (acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid). The flow rate was maintained at a constant 200 µl/min and the column was maintained at a constant 50 °C for the entirety of the run."	"Eluent from the UPLC system was infused into a Waters Xevo G2 Q-Tof MS instrument fitted with an electrospray source. Data were collected in the positive ion mode, scanning from 50-1200 at a rate of 0.2 s/scan, alternating between MS and MSE mode. The collision energy was set to 6 V for MS mode and 15−30 V for MSE mode. The capillary voltage was set to 2200 V, the source temperature was 150 °C, the desolvation temperature was 350 °C, and the desolvation gas flow rate was 800 l/h of nitrogen.
</p>
Sodium formate was used to calibrate the equipment with mass accuracy within 1 ppm prior to the run. The UPLC−MS system was quality checked by making five injections of a standard solution containing a 2 μg/mL concentration each of caffeine, reserpine, sulfadimethoxine, and terfenadine in 50% methanol. The performance was evaluated using the final three injections, and acceptable performance is indicated by a retention time error of ±0.05 min, peak area RSD of <25%, and mass accuracy of <3 ppm error for all four compounds."	"Waters raw data files were converted to .cdf format using Databridge software (Waters), and feature detection was performed using the open source XCMS software package. Raw peaks were normalized to total ion signal in R. Two raw data files were generated for the low collision energy (6V MS mode) and high energy indiscriminate collision energy (15-30V MSE mode). These files were zipped together. Files with extension 01 represent low energy and files with extension 02 represent high energy data for a given sample."	"Compounds were identified by comparing MS spectra obtained from LC−MS analysis to the NIST, METLIN, and MassBank databases using 10 ppm as the upper limit for accuracy. In cases where spectra were not obtainable, accurate mass was used to identify the compounds."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Post Extraction;Derivatization"	"Chromatography Instrument;Column type;Column model"	"Scan polarity;Scan m/z range;Instrument;Mass analyzer;Ion source"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Vanamala"	"Reddivari"	"Massey"
Study Person First Name	"Jairam"	"Lavanya"	"Aaron"
Study Person Mid Initials	""	""	""
Study Person Email	"juv4@psu.edu
"	"lur15@psu.edu"	"armassey@rams.colostate.edu"
Study Person Phone	""	""	""
Study Person Fax	""	""	""
Study Person Address	""	""	""
Study Person Affiliation	"Penn State University"	"Penn State University"	"Colorado State University"
Study Person Roles	"Professor"	"Professor"	"Student"
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""	""	""
