ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"NCBITAXON"	"MESH"	"CHMO"	"OBI"	"MS"	"TAXRANK"	"BTO"	"CHEMINF"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MESH"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHMO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/TAXRANK"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/BTO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHEMINF"	
Term Source Version	"2"	"10"	"5"	"22"	"86"	"7"	"29"	"41"	
Term Source Description	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"Medical Subject Headings"	"Chemical Methods Ontology"	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	"Taxonomic Rank Vocabulary"	"BRENDA Tissue and Enzyme Source Ontology"	"Chemical Information Ontology"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS756"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	"C:\Users\SZ\Downloads\isacreatormetabolights\Configurations\MetaboLightsConfig20150707"
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	"MetaboLightsConfig20150707"
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS756"
Study Title	"Differentiation of Ficus deltoidea varieties and chemical marker determination by UHPLC-HRMS metabolomics for establishing quality control criteria of this medicinal herb"
Study Description	"Ficus deltoidea Jack (Moraceae) is a plant used in Malaysia for various conditions including as a supplement in diabetes management. Morphology distinction of the 7 varieties (var. angustifolia, var. bilobata, var. deltoidea, var. intermedia, var. kunstleri, var. motleyana and var. trengganuensis) is challenging due to the extreme leaf heterophylly and unclear varietal boundaries, making it difficult for authentication and quality control of F. deltoidea products. In this study, we applied untargeted UHPLC-HRMS metabolomics and a genetic approach to the authentication of 7 F. deltoidea varieties collected from 6 locations throughout Peninsular Malaysia. The PCA and HCA analysis showed 3 main chemotypes based on the differentiation in the main flavonoids content; var. terengganuensis and var. intermedia (chemotypes-a), var. angustifolia (chemotype-b) and var. bilobata, var. deltoidea, var. kunstleri and var. motleyana (chemotype-c). Using these groupings, the supervised PLS-DA analysis identified 15 glycosylated flavones as markers together with 1 furanocoumarin. These markers were always consistent for the respective varieties, regardless of the geographical origin and if the plants were of wild or cultivated. Additionally, the chemotaxonomy differentiation was also validated by DNA sequencing. In particular, var. bilobata accession which showed divergent morphology was also differentiated by the chemical fingerprints and genotype. Our results suggest that the chemotype differentiation based on the flavonoids fingerprints along with the proposed markers provide a complementary tool to morphology and genetic analyses for the quality control of raw materials and products from F. deltoidea varieties."
Study Submission Date	"2018-09-23"
Study Public Release Date	"2019-01-18"
Study File Name	"s_Ficus.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"untargeted metabolites"	"ultra-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry"	"Solid Phase Extraction"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	""	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0000715"	"http://purl.bioontology.org/ontology/MESH/D052616"
Study Design Type Term Source REF	""	"CHMO"	"MESH"
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	""
Study Publication DOI	""
Study Publication Author List	"Adlin Afzan, Noraini Kasim, Nor Hadiani Ismail, Norfaizura Azmi, Abdul Manaf Ali, Nashriyah Mat and Jean-Luc Wolfender"
Study Publication Title	"Differentiation of Ficus deltoidea varieties and chemical marker determination by UHPLC-HRMS metabolomics for establishing quality control criteria of this medicinal herb"
Study Publication Status	"In Preparation"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"variety"	"location"
Study Factor Type	"bio-variety"	"geographic location"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/TAXRANK_0000032"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/GAZ_00000448"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"TAXRANK"	"CHEMINF"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_ficus_metabolite_profiling_mass_spectrometry.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"mass spectrometry"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000470"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"Liquid Chromatography MS - Negative (LC-MS (Negative))"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"
Ficus deltoidea Jack (Moraceae) is a plant used in Malaysia for various conditions including as a supplement in diabetes management. Morphology distinction of the 7 varieties (var. angustifolia, var. bilobata, var. deltoidea, var. intermedia, var. kunstleri, var. motleyana and var. trengganuensis) is challenging due to the extreme leaf heterophylly and unclear varietal boundaries, making it difficult for authentication and quality control of F. deltoidea products. In this study, we applied untargeted UHPLC-HRMS metabolomics and a genetic approach to the authentication of 7 F. deltoidea varieties collected from 6 locations throughout Peninsular Malaysia. The PCA and HCA analysis showed 3 main chemotypes based on the differentiation in the main flavonoids content; var. terengganuensis and var. intermedia (chemotypes-a), var. angustifolia (chemotype-b) and var. bilobata, var. deltoidea, var. kunstleri and var. motleyana (chemotype-c). Using these groupings, the supervised PLS-DA analysis identified 15 glycosylated flavones as markers together with 1 furanocoumarin. These markers were always consistent for the respective varieties, regardless of the geographical origin and if the plants were of wild or cultivated. Additionally, the chemotaxonomy differentiation was also validated by DNA sequencing. In particular, var. bilobata accession which showed divergent morphology was also differentiated by the chemical fingerprints and genotype. Our results suggest that the chemotype differentiation based on the flavonoids fingerprints along with the proposed markers provide a complementary tool to morphology and genetic analyses for the quality control of raw materials and products from F. deltoidea varieties."	"Fresh leaves of F. deltoidea were quenched in liquid nitrogen and dried using a freeze-dryer. About 100 mg ± 2 mg of the leaves were then ground and extracted with 2 ml of 85% aqueous methanol using a bead mill (2 cm diameter, frequency 30 Hz and time 2 min) from Retsch MM 200 (Haan, Germany), followed by centrifugation at 4000 rpm for 5 min. The supernatant was enriched by solid phase extraction (SPE). A C18 SPE cartridge (Finisterre by Teknokroma, 100 mg, 1 ml) was pre-conditioned with 85% methanol before allowing the supernatant to pass through. The eluent was evaporated completely under vacuum (Genevac HT-4X, Genevac Technologies, Ipswich England) and reconstituted in 85% methanol to a concentration of 2 mg/ml for mass spectrometry analysis. Quality control (QC) sample was prepared by combining equal aliquot of all samples."	"Chromatographic separations were performed on a Waters Acquity UHPLC system coupled with Photodiode array detector. Protocol for fingerprinting was established on a C18 column (Waters Acquity UPLC BEH C18, 100 mm x 2.1 mm, 1.7 µm) protected with a pre-column (Waters VanGuard BEH C18, 1.7 µm). Column and sample temperature were fixed at 60 °C and 10 °C respectively. The mobile phase consisted of water (solvent A) and acetonitrile (solvent B), each containing 0.1% formic acid (v/v). A 10 min gradient elution at a flowrate of 0.75 ml/min was applied as follows: 0-4 min, 5-20% B; 4-7 min, 20-95% B; 7-8 min, 95% B and a 2 min isocratic step for column equilibration to initial conditions. 2 µl of sample was injected in the partial loop with needle overfill mode."	"A Micromass LCT Premier Time-of-Flight mass spectrometer (Waters, Milford, MA, USA) and equipped with an ESI interface was used for the high-resolution mass spectrometry analysis. Data was acquired on a MassLynx software version 4.1 (Waters, Milford, MA, USA). The ESI operation parameters for the negative ionization were as follows: capillary voltage 2400 V, cone voltage 40 V, dessolvation temperature 330 °C, source temperature 120 °C, cone gas flow 20 l/h, dessolvation gas flow 700 l/h and multichannel plate detector voltage at 2450 V. MS was calibrated for a mass range of 100-1000 Da using sodium formate to a mass error of less than 2 ppm. Sodium formate solution was prepared by mixing 0.1 M sodium hydroxide, 10% formic acid and acetonitrile (1:1:8 v/v). Leucine-enkaphalin (0.25 ppm with 0.1% formic acid) was used as internal reference and infused through the LockSpray probe at 7 µl/min using LC pump (Shidmazu LC-10ADvp, Duisburg, Germany). The acquisition time was 0.30 s in centroid, negative ionization and W mode."	"The raw files from the UHPLC-PDA-TOF MS analysis were first converted to .NetCDF format using MassLynx Databridge program. Peak detection, chromatogram de-convolution, peak alignment and gap filling were performed using open source software, MzMine 2.11."	"Identification was based on authentic standards (MS1) and when not available based on dereplication of Dictionary of Natural Products (MS1) and UV spectra information."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Derivatization;Post Extraction"	"Chromatography Instrument;Column model;Column type;Guard column"	"Scan polarity;Mass analyzer;Ion source;Instrument;Scan m/z range"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	";"	";;;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	";"	";;;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Wolfender"	"Afzan"
Study Person First Name	"Jean-Luc"	"Adlin"
Study Person Mid Initials	""	""
Study Person Email	"Jean-Luc.Wolfender@unige.ch"	"adlinafzan@imr.gov.my"
Study Person Phone	"+41 22 37 933 85"	"+603 2616 2621"
Study Person Fax	"+41 22 379 33 99"	"+603 2616 2830"
Study Person Address	"University of Geneva-University of Lausanne, Phytochemistry and bioactive natural products, Rue Michel-Servet 1 , CH-1211 Genève 4"	"University of Geneva-University of Lausanne, Phytochemistry and bioactive natural products, Rue Michel-Servet 1 , CH-1211 Genève 4"
Study Person Affiliation	"University of Geneva-University of Lausanne"	"University of Geneva-University of Lausanne"
Study Person Roles	"Principal investigator"	"Principal investigator"
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""	""
