ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"NCIT"	"NCBITAXON"	"BTO"	"EFO"	"CCO"	"CHMO"	"UO"	"OBI"	"NCIT"	"MS"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCIT"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/BTO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CCO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHMO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/UO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCIT"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	
Term Source Version	"28"	"3"	"24"	"113"	"2"	"5"	"42"	"22"	"34"	"96"	
Term Source Description	"National Cancer Institute Thesaurus"	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"BRENDA Tissue and Enzyme Source Ontology"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	"Cell Cycle Ontology"	"Chemical Methods Ontology"	"Units of Measurement Ontology"	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"National Cancer Institute Thesaurus"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS150"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment [Created with configuration]	""
Comment [Last Opened With Configuration]	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	""
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	""
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS150"
Study Title	"Distinct metabolic responses of an ovarian cancer stem cell line using gas chromatography mass spectrometry"
Study Description	"Cancer metabolism is emerging as an important focus area in cancer research. However, the in vitro cell culture conditions under which much cellular metabolism research is performed differ drastically from in vivo tumor conditions, which are characterized by variations in the levels of oxygen, nutrients like glucose, and other molecules like chemotherapeutics. Moreover, it is important to know how the diverse cell types in a tumor, including cancer stem cells that are believed to be a major cause of cancer recurrence, respond to these variations. Here, in vitro environmental perturbations designed to mimic different aspects of the in vivo environment were used to characterize how an ovarian cancer cell line and its derived, isogenic cancer stem cells metabolically respond to environmental cues. Mass spectrometry was used to profile metabolite levels in response to in vitro environmental perturbations. Docetaxel, the chemotherapeutic used for this experiment, caused significant metabolic changes in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism in ovarian cancer cells, but had virtually no metabolic effect on isogenic ovarian cancer stem cells. Glucose deprivation, hypoxia, and the combination thereof altered ovarian cancer cell and cancer stem cell metabolism to varying extents for the two cell types. Hypoxia had a much larger effect on ovarian cancer cell metabolism, while glucose deprivation had a greater effect on ovarian cancer stem cell metabolism. Core metabolites and pathways affected by these perturbations were identified, along with pathways that were unique to cell types or perturbations. The metabolic responses of an ovarian cancer cell line and its derived isogenic cancer stem cells differ greatly under most conditions, suggesting that these two cell types may behave quite differently in an in vivo tumor microenvironment. While cancer metabolism and cancer stem cells are each promising potential therapeutic targets, such varied behaviors in vivo would need to be considered in the design and early testing of such treatments."
Study Submission Date	"2014-12-31"
Study Public Release Date	"2014-12-31"
Study File Name	"s_perturbationOCC&OCSC.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"untargeted metabolites"	"Ovarian cancer"	"Cancer Stem Cell"	"cancer metabolism"	"gas chromatography-mass spectrometry"	"two-dimensional gas chromatography"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	""	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OMIM_167000"	"http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Thesaurus.owl#C68706"	""	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0000497"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0002886"
Study Design Type Term Source REF	""	"CCO"	"NCIT"	""	"CHMO"	"CHMO"
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	"25518943"
Study Publication DOI	""
Study Publication Author List	"Vermeersch KA, Wang L, McDonald JF, Styczynski MP."
Study Publication Title	"Distinct metabolic responses of an ovarian cancer stem cell line."
Study Publication Status	"Published"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"Cell Type"	"Peturbation"	"Time Point"
Study Factor Type	"cell type"	"Group"	"timepoint"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000324"	"http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Thesaurus.owl#C43359"	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000724"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"EFO"	"NCIT"	"EFO"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_perturbationocc&ocsc_metabolite_profiling_mass_spectrometry.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"mass spectrometry"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000470"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"LECO Pegasus 4D"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"The OVCAR-3 cell line was obtained from the Developmental Therapeutic Program (DTP) of the National Cancer Institute (NCI). The OVCAR-3 ovarian cancer cells (OCCs) were cultured in R10 medium: RPMI-1640 (Cellgro, Mediatech Inc., Manassas, VA) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS, Invitrogen, Grand Island, NY) and 1% antibiotic-antimycotic solution (Cellgro, Mediatech Inc., Manassas, VA). Authenticity of the OVCAR-3 cell line was confirmed using short tandem repeat profiling performed by IDEXX RADIL (Columbia, MO) in October 2013. Cells were grown until confluence and subcultured at a ratio of 1:4.
</p>
Ovarian cancer stem cells (OCSCs) previously derived from a side population of OVCAR-3 were cultured in ultra-low attachment petri dishes (Corning Incorporated, Corning, NY) in stem cell medium: DMEM/F12 (1:1) (Cellgro, Mediatech Inc., Manassas, VA) supplemented with 0.4% bovine serum albumin (BSA, Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO), 20 ng/ml epidermal growth factor (EGF, Invitrogen, Grand Island, NY), 10 ng/ml basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF, Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO), 5 μg/ml insulin (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO), and 1% antibiotic-antimycotic solution (Cellgro, Mediatech Inc., Manassas, VA). The spheroids were dissociated and reseeded at a density of 105 cells/ml each week.
</p>
For these experiments, there was one chemotherapeutic (docetaxel) and three environmental perturbations (glucose deprived, hypoxia, and ischemia). For the chemotherapeutic perturbation, samples were taken at 0 min, 24 hr, and 48 hr. For the hypoxic and glucose deprived perturbation, samples were taken at 0 min, 2 hr, 4 hr, 8 hr, 24 hr, and 48 hr.
</p>
For ovarian cancer cells (OCCs), medium was removed and cells were quickly washed with 1 ml PBS at 37 °C, which was aspirated off, and then 700 µl of 80:20 methanol/water solution at -80 °C was added immediately. The plate was then incubated at -80 °C for 15 min. After incubation, remaining cellular debris were harvested using a cell scraper (BD Falcon, San Jose, CA) for intracellular analysis. For ovarian cancer stem cells (OCSCs), the media-cell mixture was transferred to a filter cup (Microcheck II beverage monitor, Pall, Port Washington, NY) with a pre-wetted membrane (0.45 µm pore Express PLUS Polyethersulfone membrane, Millipore, Billerica, MA) and the medium was filtered from the cells. The cells were then quickly washed with 4 ml PBS at 37 °C. The filter was then removed and placed upside down in a petri dish containing 1.5 ml of 80:20 methanol/water solution at -80 °C. The samples were then incubated at -80 °C for 15 min. After 15 min, the petri dish was removed and the filter was flipped over and washed using the 1.5 ml 80:20 methanol/water solution to remove any debris still caught in the filter. An extraction blank was made for the OCSCs following the same procedure above but only 4 ml PBS was washed through the filter. For both cell types, the intracellular solution was then transferred to a microcentrifuge tube in a cold ethanol bath and centrifuged at 5,000 x g for 5 min at -4 °C. The supernatant was retained, and the pellet was subsequently re-extracted twice in 100 µl of the cold 80:20 methanol/water solution, with all supernatants being pooled. Intracellular and extracellular samples were stored at -80 °C and -20 °C, respectively, until analysis."	"Before derivatization, intracellular samples were vacuum concentrated in a CentriVap at 40 °C until completely dry. Samples were aliquoted so as to be already normalized to cell count: cell density at sample time had been measured on a hemacytometer, and the volume that was vacuum concentrated was varied for each sample in order to yield a final concentration of 3,000 live cell equivalents/µl after derivatization. The samples were derivatized by using the following protocol. 2.5 µl of 40 mg/ml O-methylhydroxylamine hydrochloride (MP Biomedicals, LLC, Santa Ana, CA) in pyridine was added to the dried sample and shaken at 1400 rpm for 90 minutes at 30 °C. 22.5 µl of N-methyl-N-(trimethylsilyl) trifluoroacetamide (MSTFA) + 1% trimethylchlorosilane (TMCS) (Thermo Scientific, Lafayette, CO) was then added to the samples which were then shaken at 1400 rpm for 30 minutes at 37 °C. Samples were centrifuged at 21,100 x g for 3 min and 10 µl of the supernatant was added to an autosampler vial. Samples were spiked with 0.10 µl of a retention time standard solution consisting of fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) and an internal standard of nonadecanoic acid methyl ester dissolved in dimethylformamide."	"A LECO Pegasus 4D instrument with an Aglient 7683B autosampler, Agilent 7890A gas chromatograph and time-of-flight mass spectrometer (TOF-MS) was used to analyze the samples. The instrument was controlled using ChromaTOF. A sample volume of 1 µl was injected into the split/splitless inlet at 250 °C in splitless mode. The first column was an HP-5, 30 m long x 0.320 mm ID x 0.25 µm film thickness (Agilent, Santa Clara, CA), and the second was an Rtx-200, 2 m long x 0.25 mm ID x 0.25 µm film thickness (Restek, Bellefonte, PA) with a constant flow rate of 1.00 ml/min helium. The initial oven temperature was set to 70 °C and was held for one min after which the temperature was increased at 10 °C/min until reaching 315 °C with a final hold for two min."	"A LECO Pegasus IV D time of flight mass spectrum (TOF-MS) was used. The total MS method time was based on the GC method time with an acquisition delay of 240 s. The collection mass range was from 50 to 500 u. The acquisition rate was set to 200 spectra/second. The detector voltage was set to 100 V above the optimized voltage with the electron energy set to -70 V. The mass defect mode was set to manual with the mass defect 0 mu/100 u. The transfer line temperature was set to 320 °C and the ion source temperature was set to 220 °C."	"Sample files were first analyzed in ChromaTOF (LECO, St. Joseph, MI) to determine baseline, peak area, and peak identification. Briefly, settings included a baseline offset of 0.5, automatic smoothing, 1st dimension peak width of 24 s, 2nd dimension peak width of 0.10 s, and a match of 700 required to combine peaks with a minimum signal-to-noise (S/N) of 5 for all subpeaks. Peaks were required to have a S/N of 10 and have a minimum similarity score of 800 before assigning a name. Unique mass was used for area and height calculation. Analytes were then aligned across the sample files using MetPP (http://metaopen.sourceforge.net/metpp.html). After alignment, further processing of the data was done based on the procedure laid out in [1]. Batch effects were removed from the intracellular data set using LOESS. To remove analytes that were not reproducibly detected, analytes for which more than half of the values were missing in the QC samples or for which the QC samples had a coefficient of variance larger than 0.5 were removed from the data set. Then, missing values were manually corrected using small value correction only if all the values were missing in the biological replicate. Analysis of final data set was performed using MetaboAnalyst (http://metaboanalyst.ca/).
</p>
Ref:</br>
[1] Dunn WB, Broadhurst D, Begley P, Zelena E, Francis-McIntyre S, Anderson N, Brown M, Knowles JD, Halsall A, Haselden JN, Nicholls AW, Wilson ID, Kell DB, Goodacre R. Procedures for large-scale metabolic profiling of serum and plasma using gas chromatography and liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. Nat Protoc. 2011;6:1060–1083. doi:10.1038/nprot.2011.335, PMID:21720319</br>."	"GC-MS spectra were compared to several libraries including the Golm Metabolome Library, NIST spectral libraries, and an in house library. Analytes were identified by mass spectra comparison to the libraries with a cut-off of 700/1000. Metabolites were identified from the annotated analytes by comparison to the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) or the Human Metabolome Database (HMDB); if they were listed in KEGG or HMDB they were identified as metabolites."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Post Extraction;Derivatization"	"Chromatography Instrument;Autosampler model;Column type;Column model;Column type 2;Column model 2"	"Scan polarity;Scan m/z range;Instrument;Mass analyzer;Ion source"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	";"	";;;;;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	";"	";;;;;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Vermeersch"	"Styczynski"
Study Person First Name	"Kathleen"	"Mark"
Study Person Mid Initials	"A"	"P"
Study Person Email	"kvermeersch@gatech.edu"	"mark.styczynski@chbe.gatech.edu"
Study Person Phone	""	""
Study Person Fax	""	""
Study Person Address	""	""
Study Person Affiliation	"Georgia Institute of Technology"	"Georgia Institute of Technology"
Study Person Roles	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""	""
