ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"NCBITAXON"	"OBI"	"MS"	"CHMO"	"CHEBI"	"UO"	"EFO"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHMO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHEBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/UO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	
Term Source Version	"2"	"22"	"86"	"16"	"93"	"43"	"113"	
Term Source Description	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	"Chemical Methods Ontology"	"Chemical Entities of Biological Interest Ontology"	"Units of Measurement Ontology"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS208"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	""
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	""
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS208"
Study Title	"The response of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii to nitrogen deprivation: a systems biology analysis"
Study Description	"Drastic alteration in macronutrients causes large changes in gene expression in the photosynthetic unicellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Preliminary data suggested that cells follow a biphasic response to this change hinging on the initiation of lipid accumulation, and we hypothesized that drastic repatterning of metabolism also followed this biphasic modality. To test this hypothesis, transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolite changes that occur under nitrogen (N) deprivation were analyzed. Eight sampling times were selected covering the progressive slowing of growth and induction of oil synthesis between 4 and 6 h after N deprivation. Results of the combined, systems-level investigation indicated that C. reinhardtii cells sense and respond on a large scale within 30 min to a switch to N-deprived conditions turning on a largely gluconeogenic metabolic state, which then transitions to a glycolytic stage between 4 and 6 h after N depletion. This nitrogen-sensing system is transduced to carbon- and nitrogen-responsive pathways, leading to down-regulation of carbon assimilation and chlorophyll biosynthesis, and an increase in nitrogen metabolism and lipid biosynthesis. For example, the expression of nearly all the enzymes for assimilating nitrogen from ammonium, nitrate, nitrite, urea, formamide/acetamide, purines, pyrimidines, polyamines, amino acids and proteins increased significantly. Although arginine biosynthesis enzymes were also rapidly up-regulated, arginine pool size changes and isotopic labeling results indicated no increased flux through this pathway."
Study Submission Date	"2015-06-02"
Study Public Release Date	"2015-06-29"
Study File Name	"s_Chlamydomonas Primary Metabolites under Nitrogen Deprivation.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"metabolomic profiling"	"nitrogen deprivation"	"triglyceride"	"gas chromatography-mass spectrometry"	"untargeted metabolites"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000752"	""	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHEBI_17855"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0000497"	""
Study Design Type Term Source REF	"EFO"	""	"CHEBI"	"CHMO"	""
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	"25515814"
Study Publication DOI	"10.1111/tpj.12747"
Study Publication Author List	"Park JJ, Wang H, Gargouri M, Deshpande RR, Skepper JN, Holguin FO, Juergens MT, Shachar-Hill Y, Hicks LM, Gang DR."
Study Publication Title	"The response of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii to nitrogen deprivation: a systems biology analysis."
Study Publication Status	"Published"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"Nitrogen deprivation"
Study Factor Type	"timepoint"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000724"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"EFO"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_chlamydomonas_primary_metabolites_under_nitrogen_deprivation_metabolite_profiling_mass_spectrometry.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"mass spectrometry"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000470"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"Pagasus 4D GC-MS (LECO)"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"The cell-wall deficient mutant of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii CC-400 cw15 mt+, was obtained from the Chlamydomonas Resource Center at the University of Minnesota (St. Paul, MN, USA). The cells were cultured in Tris acetate phosphate (TAP) medium containing 5 mM ammonium chloride as N source at 22 °C under constant illumination with cool-white fluorescent bulbs at an illumination of 80 µmol photons/m^2/s and with continuous shaking at 150 rpm. Single colonies were used to inoculate a pre-culture in a shake flask plugged with a sponge to allow aeration. This culture was harvested at mid-exponential phase and used to inoculate a new culture at a starting density of around 0.1 OD750, which corresponds to a cell dry weight of 0.05 mg/ml. The cells were cultured continuously in a volume of 1 l in a 5 l conical flask by serial dilution, not allowing the cell density to exceed 0.4 OD750. The cells were adapted to this environment by at least three serial dilutions corresponding to more than 5 doublings. The culture volume was always equal to or less than one fifth of the flask. This along with the low cell density ensured that the cultures had consistent illumination without significant shading and that the cells remain in a metabolic steady state (confirmed by steady state 13C labelling patterns).
</p>
After the cells had been adapted to the above conditions, the culture was split in two and harvested by centrifugation (5000 x g for 2 min). One half of the centrifuged cells were washed with acetate-free TAP media and re-suspended in 2 l of fresh TAP media (containing acetate). The remaining cells were washed with acetate free Tris phosphate media without nitrogen source (N-) and re-suspended in 2 l TAP media (with acetate, without N). The cells from each treatment were divided into seven 1 l conical flasks with a culture volume of 200 ml and then allowed to grow under the same conditions described above. The culture was divided into four 50 mL conical tubes and centrifuged immediately at 5000 x g for 2 min at 0 ºC for the zero hr time point. Three of the centrifuged pellets were flash frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -70 ºC. The total time from harvest to freezing took less than 10 min. One of the stored pellets was shipped on dry ice for metabolite analysis and another was shipped on dry ice for proteomic analysis. To the fourth pellet, 1 ml of the RNA stabilization reagent, RNAlater (Ambion Life Technologies), was added and then frozen in liquid nitrogen for storage at -70 ºC. This sample was sent on dry ice for transcriptome analysis by RNA-seq.
</p>
The 7 flasks being grown simultaneously were harvested successively after 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 12 and 24 hr. The culturing and collection process was repeated on four separate occasions (different weeks), to yield four biological replicates. The amount of cells harvested per sample was always more than 4 mg dry weight equivalent."	"At the incubation site 1 ml cell suspensions were injected into 1 ml of -70 °C cold quenching solution composed of 70% methanol in water using a thermo block above dry ice. Centrifuge tubes containing the solution during harvest were cooled in a pre-chilled cooling box to keep sample temperature below -20 °C. Cells were collected by centrifugation at 16,100 rcf for 2 min with the centrifuge and rotor cooled at -20 °C. Supernatant was decanted and residual liquid carefully removed. The pellet was flash frozen in liquid nitrogen and lyophilized at -50 °C in a 2 ml round bottom Eppendorf tube. Lyophilized cells were disrupted using the ball mill MM 301 (Retsch GmbH & Co., Germany) in two variants for 3 min: (a) using 0.5 ml of glass beads (500 µm i.d., Sigma, St.Louis MO) concomitant with 0.5 ml extraction solvent and (b) using a single 5 mm i.d. steel ball, followed by the addition of 0.5 ml extraction solvent and vortexing. After 2 min centrifugation at 16,100 rcf, the supernatants were removed (200 µl for the glass bead method, 350 µl for the steel ball method) followed by a secondary extraction step using an additional 800 µl extraction solvent, centrifugation and adding the supernatant (700 µl for the glass bead method) to the first aliquot. Hence, for both methods the same fraction of extraction solvent was used (70% of total extraction volume). 5 different extraction solvent system (methanol:isopropanol:water (5:2:2)) was used. Extracts were concentrated to dryness in a vacuum concentrator. Dried extracts were kept at -80 °C for up to 4 wks before derivatization and analysis by GC-TOF mass spectrometry."	"A mixture of internal retention index markers was prepared using fatty acid methyl esters of C8, C9, C10, C12, C14, C16, C18, C20, C22, C24, C26, C28 and C30 linear chain length, dissolved in chloroform at a concentration of 0.8 mg/ml (C8-C16) and 0.4 mg/ml (C18-C30). 2 µl of this RI mixture were added to the dried extracts. 5 µl of a solution of 20 mg/ml of 98% pure methoxyamine hydrochloride (CAS No. 593-56-6, Sigma, St.Louis MO) in pyridine (silylation grade, Pierce, Rockford IL) was added and shaken at 30 °C for 90 min to protect aldehyde and ketone groups. 45 µl of MSTFA w/1% TMCS (1 ml bottles, Pierce, Rockford IL) was added for trimethylsilylation of acidic protons and shaken at 37 °C for 30 min. Reaction mixtures were transferred to 2 ml clear glass autosampler vials with microinserts (Agilent, Santa Clara CA) and closed by 11 mm T/S/T crimp caps (MicroLiter, Suwanee GA).
</p>
1 µl sample was filled using 39 mm vial penetration at 1 µl/s fill speed, injecting 0.5 µl at 10 µl/s injection speed at initial 50 °C which was ramped by 12 °C/s to final 250 °C and hold for 3 min. The injector was operated in splitless mode, opening the split vent after 25 s. A 30 m long, 0.25 mm i.d. Rtx-5Sil MS column with 0.25 µm 95% dimethyl 5% diphenyl polysiloxane film and additional 10 m integrated guard column was used (Restek, Bellefonte PA)."	"A Leco Pegasus 4D time of flight mass spectrometer was controlled by the Leco ChromaTOF. Electron impact ionization at 70V was employed with an ion source temperature of 250 °C. After 290 s solvent delay, filament 1 was turned on and mass spectra were acquired at mass resolving power R = 600 from m/z 85–500 at 10 spectra/s and 1800 V detector voltage without turning on the mass defect option. Recording ended after 1200 s. The instrument performed autotuning for mass calibration using FC43 (Perfluorotributylamine) before starting analysis sequences."	"Files were preprocessed directly after data acquisition and stored as ChromaTOF-specific *.peg files. ChromaTOF was used for data preprocessing without smoothing, 3 s peak width, baseline subtraction just above the noise level, and automatic mass spectral deconvolution and peak detection at signal/noise levels of 10:1 throughout the chromatogram."	"The LECO/Fiehn metabolomics library was used to identify compounds. Each compound was assigned a similarity value, a measurement of the similarity of the collected spectrum with the library mass spectrum, with an assignment cut-off value of 70%. Primary metabolite data analysis was performed using ChromaTOF software, Version 4.43.3.0, which supports automatic deconvolution of all mass spectra from a chromatogram, built in mass-spectral correction for co-eluting metabolites, calculation of retention indices, and identification of a suitable fragment mass-to charge ratio for selective quantification. In the Statistical Compare feature of the ChromaTOF, the processed samples were added to a sample table, and assigned to their respective groups. The compounds were then aligned based on similarities in both retention time and mass spectral match."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Post Extraction;Derivatization"	"Chromatography Instrument;Column type;Column model;Guard column"	"Scan polarity;Scan m/z range;Instrument;Mass analyzer;Ion source"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	";"	";;;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	";"	";;;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Park"	"Gang"
Study Person First Name	"Jeong-Jin"	"David"
Study Person Mid Initials	""	"Roger"
Study Person Email	"jj.park@wsu.edu"	"gangd@wsu.edu"
Study Person Phone	"509-335-1023"	""
Study Person Fax	""	""
Study Person Address	"IBC, WSU, Pullman, WA 99164-6340"	"IBC, WSU, Pullman, WA 99164-6340"
Study Person Affiliation	""	""
Study Person Roles	"researcher"	"Principal Investigator"
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/MS_1001271"	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	"MS"	""
