ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"OBI"	"BTO"	"NCBITAXON"	"MS"	"CHMO"	"EFO"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/BTO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/MS"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/CHMO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/EFO"	
Term Source Version	"22"	"22"	"6"	"129"	"5"	"146"	
Term Source Description	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"BRENDA Tissue and Enzyme Source Ontology"	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"Mass Spectrometry Ontology"	"Chemical Methods Ontology"	"Experimental Factor Ontology"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS376"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	""
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	""
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS376"
Study Title	"Appropriate taxonomic classification of intestinal microbiome by 16S rRNA gene targeting metagenomic approach"
Study Description	"16S metagenomic analysis has provided much information about the intestinal microbiome. However, there are no reports that describe their appropriate taxonomic classification rank. Moreover, studies differ on the taxonomic ranking of the same microorganism. Intestinal microbiome exerts a significant degree of influence on the host via the metabolome. In the present study, we searched for their appropriate classification ranks based on the correlation between the metabolome and microbiome. Over 200 metabolites were identified by capillary electrophoresis and time-of-flight mass spectrometry (CE-TOFMS) based metabolomics of faeces from antibiotics-treated and untreated mice. Nine phyla, 15 orders, 22 classes, 40 families, and 59 genera were identified by 16S metagenomic analysis. Principle component analysis (PCA) of the intestinal microbiome at each taxonomic rank revealed differences between the antibiotic-treated and untreated groups on the first principle component in the family and genus-level analyses. These differences were similar to those found in the metabolome PCA. In addition, a strong correlation between principle component score of the metabolome and that of the microbiome was observed in the case of family and genus-level analyses. From these results, we hypothesize that lower taxonomic ranks such as family or genus are preferable while using 16S metagenome analysis for investigating the crosstalk, via metabolites, between intestinal microbiome and the host."
Study Submission Date	"2016-09-12"
Study Public Release Date	"2017-02-20"
Study File Name	"s_mtbls376.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"microbiome"	"capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry"	"untargeted metabolites"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0004982"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CHMO_0000702"	""
Study Design Type Term Source REF	"EFO"	"CHMO"	""
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	""
Study Publication DOI	""
Study Publication Author List	"Yoshihisa Wakita, Yumi Shimomura, Hiroyuki Yamamoto, Yoshiaki Ohashi, Mitsuharu Matsumoto"
Study Publication Title	"Appropriate taxonomic classification of intestinal microbiome by 16S rRNA gene targeting metagenomic approach"
Study Publication Status	"Submitted"
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"Antibiotic treatment"
Study Factor Type	"treatment"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/EFO_0000727"
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	"EFO"
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_mtbls376_POS_mass_spectrometry.txt"	"a_mtbls376_NEG_mass_spectrometry.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"mass spectrometry"	"mass spectrometry"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000470"	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000470"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"6210 TOF LC/MS (Agilent)"	"6210 TOF LC/MS (Agilent)"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"Chromatography"	"Mass spectrometry"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"Eight-week-old male C57BL/6 mice were purchased from Clea Japan, Inc. (Tokyo, Japan), Japan Charles River Inc. (Yokohama, Japan), and Japan SLC Inc. (Shizuoka, Japan). These mice were bred in the Dairy Science and Technology Institute, Kyodo Milk Industry Co. Ltd., Tokyo, Japan. Just after their arrival, we divided mice from each breeder into two groups, untreated mice [Clea: n = 14, Charles River (Cr): n = 13, and Slc: n = 13] and antibiotics-treated mice (CleaA: n = 12, CrA: n = 13, and SlcA: n = 13). They were housed 6 ~ 7 per cage (depth 41, width 26, and height 21 cm), and given water and commercial CL-2 pellets (CLEA Japan, Inc.) ad libitum. After 5 days of preliminary breeding, the antibiotics-treated group was given water including antibiotics (1 g/l ampicillin, 1 g/l neomycin, 1 g/l metronidazole, 0.5 g/l vancomycin) ad libitum for 3 days. Faeces were collected 4th day after the antibiotics treatment. Faeces from the untreated group were collected without the antibiotics treatment. The protocols were approved by the Kyodo Milk Animal Use Committee (Permit Number: 2013-01) and all the experimental procedures were performed according to the guidelines of the Animal Care Committee of Kyodo Milk Industry Co., Ltd. and were in accordance with the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals published by the National Academies Press."	"Fresh samples (approximately 100 mg) were diluted nine-fold with Dulbecco's Phosphate Buffered Saline (D-PBS) (GIBCO) and extracted three times by intense mixing for 1 min and letting them stand for 5 min on ice. At 1 min after extraction, the upper aqueous portion, without the precipitation at the bottom was collected and centrifuged (12,000 x g for 10 min at 4 °C), and 200 μl of supernatant was centrifugally filtered through a 5 kDa cutoff filter (Ultrafree-MC, Millipore). The filtrate was stored at -80 °C until use."	"CE-TOFMS analysis was performed by an Agilent CE system combined with a TOFMS (Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, CA, USA).
</p>
Cationic metabolites were separated through a fused silica capillary (50 μm internal diameter x 80 cm total length) preconditioned with a commercial buffer (H3301-1001, Human Metabolome Technologies Inc. (HMT), Tsuruoka, Japan) and filled with 1 M formic acid as electrolyte, and a commercial sheath liquid (H3301-1020, HMT) was delivered at a rate of 10 l/min. Sample solution was injected at a pressure of 50 mbar for 10 s.
</p>
Anionic metabolites were analyzed also through the fused silica capillary preconditioned with a commercial buffer (H3302-1022, HMT) and filled with 50 mM ammonium acetate solution (pH 8.5) as electrolyte, and the aforementioned sheath liquid was delivered at a rate of 10 l/min. Sample solution was injected at a pressure of 50 mbar for 6 s.
"	"In cationic analysis, electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) was conducted in the positive-ion mode and the capillary and fragmentor voltages were set at 4,000 and 120 V, respectively. Nebulizer pressure was configured at 5 psig and N2 was delivered as a drying gas at a rate of 7 l/min at 300 °C. Exact mass data were acquired at the rate of 1.5 cycles/s over a 50-1,000 m/z range.
</p>
In anionic analysis, ESIMS was conducted in the negative mode, and the capillary and fragmentor voltages were set at 3,500 and 125 V, respectively."	"The data obtained by CE-TOFMS analysis were preprocessed using proprietary software, MasterHands (Keio University, Tsuruoka, Japan). Raw data files were also converted to mzML format by using msconvertGUI software."	"Signal peaks corresponding to isotopomers, adduct ions, and other producted ions of known metabolites were excluded. The remaining peaks were annotated with putative metabolites from the HMT metabolite database based on MT and m/z values as determined by TOFMS. The tolerance range for the peak annotation was configured at ± 0.5 min for MT and ± 10 ppm for m/z. Peak areas were normalized against those of the internal standards methionine sulphone and D-camphor-10-sulfonic acid for cationic and anionic metabolites, respectively."
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Post Extraction;Derivatization"	"Chromatography Instrument;Column type;Column model"	"Scan polarity;Scan m/z range;Instrument;Mass analyzer;Ion source"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	";"	";;"	";;;;"	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Matsumoto"	"Yamamoto"
Study Person First Name	"Mitsuharu"	"Hiroyuki"
Study Person Mid Initials	""	""
Study Person Email	"m-matumoto@meito.co.jp"	"h.yama2396@gmail.com"
Study Person Phone	""	""
Study Person Fax	""	""
Study Person Address	""	""
Study Person Affiliation	"Dairy Science and Technology Institute, Kyodo Milk Industry Co. Ltd."	"Human Metabolome Technologies, Inc."
Study Person Roles	"Corresponding author"	"Submission of data"
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""	""
